Human resource practitioners should focus not only in developing talent but also empowering and engaging employees at the workplace to increase productivity. This was the focus of the Annual Talent Summit organised by the College of Human Resource Management (CHRM) during a conference held in Mombasa from November 14-16. The second edition of the summit brought together CHRM alumni and human resource professionals to deliberate on issues concerning HR practice, key among them being talent management. Other issues discussed were challenges of talent sourcing, coaching and mentoring in the digital age, impact of wellness on talent retention and alternative dispute resolution. The highlight of the conference was the launch of a mentorship and internship programme valued at Sh7 million by chief guest Prof PLO Lumumba. Through its alumni association, CHRM has brought on board organisations like Kengen and Tullow Oil Plc, where students will intern once they are through with the programme. Speaking during the event, CHRM principal Margaret Kinyanjui said: “At CHRM, we strongly believe that our graduands acquire the necessary skills to enter into the world of HR. We also hope that they constantly endeavour to develop these skills. This programme will not only be open for HR professionals and our students, but also universities and other tertiary colleges offering courses that prepare students with adequate skills to enter the job market.” The summit was attended by industry stakeholders including Mr Abraham Serem, HR director at KenGen, Mr Moses Ombok from the Federation of Kenya Employers, Mr Benard Ambasa, head of HR Tullow Oil Plc and advocate James Okeyo. CHRM is the training affiliate of the Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM), the professional body of HR practitioners in Kenya. Formally known as IHRM College, it is accredited by Technical, Vocational Education and Training Authority as a middle level academic institution as well as the National Industrial Training Authority. Apart from Nairobi, it has centres in Mombasa and Nakuru. A new branch will be opened in Kisumu in January next year.