Food exporters have asked the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) to give them alternative materials from the banned plastic bags to ship fish and other food items abroad. The exporters want the authority to come up with alternatives to address challenges affecting their industry. "The material to package our products for exports is polythene bags, we want alternatives. I have been having problems with Nema at the Port of Mombasa. Salt cannot be put in a bag without lining inside. Which part of polythene bag should be printed?" Peter Dwero posed. Gorret Mwangi, a fish exporter and Salim Kalinga who ships potato crisps overseas decried their dwindling business due to the ban on plastic bags. "I can't export crisps in manila papers because they are not conducive my customers are complaining that my items tastes differently when packaged in alternative bags... Give us alternatives," pleaded Mr Kalinga. Plastic wrappers Speaking during a stakeholders meeting to receive comments on the plastic bags control and Management Regulations 2018 in Mombasa, the traders said most of their clients want their items wrapped in plastic bags. "We are users of plastic wrappers we have engaged ourselves with Nema to apply for the certificate and they have not responded. "As plastic users we are told to come up with call-back programme but Nema does not have a programme for call back. We have piles of waste wrappers in our plant," said Raphael Marende from Diamond Industries Limited. Meanwhile, recyclers and plastic materials manufacturers accused Nema of double standards in executing their mandate. The players in plastic materials from the Coast region said the authority has failed to address the challenges affecting the Kibarani ecosystem. The manufacturers, recyclers and users of plastic materials urged the authority to address the environmental degradation in Kibarani. Dump waste "You allowed the county to dump waste into the ocean affecting our marine life. Fishermen are crying due to lack of fish, but the fish has been polluted due to the garbage," Jelinde Odhiambo said. However Nema assured the players that their grievances will be addressed. "Through the ban we have seen a cleaner environment, let's appreciate that. We are not defensive on anything we want to improve regulation. We started this journey in 2009 to get rid of plastics," said Mrs Betty Nzioka, Nema's monitoring and evaluation deputy director. The Nema officials urged the players to embrace the ban and work with the government to seek alternatives. "The hullabaloo by manufacturers is because they are looking for profits. Had you taken the ban seriously there wouldn't be a crisis. Invest in alternatives," Mrs Nzioka told the players. She said the alternatives can either be khaki or woven materials. Ms Nzioka accused the Kenya Association of Manufacturers of failing to advice its members effectively. In August, Kenya marked a year since the ban was enforced. Ms Nzioka said hygiene in packaging food items is crucial to ensure there is no food contamination.