Huawei Kenya has awarded 11 top students who emerged as national winners of the first Global ICT Competition Skills contest held in Kenya. The competition which invites students to test their ICT capabilities attracted 4,000 applicants from 40 universities across the country. Of these, 600 were selected for training after a competitive selection process after which the top 100 then underwent further coaching at a boot camp session before taking nationwide exams. Six of the winners from Jomo Kenyatta University of Technology (JKUAT), Meru University, University of Nairobi and Zetech University will attend the regional round in South Africa. Those who succeed will proceed to China to compete against candidates from over 50 countries. Kennedy Muthaura from Zetech University emerged the champion of the national final and was rewarded with a Huawei Matebook laptop. “Huawei has demonstrated its commitment to leading digital transformation in Kenya through investing in young people by empowering them with the necessary knowledge and providing them with platforms and opportunities to sharpen their IT skills,” said Jerome Ochieng, Principal Secretary in the Ministry of ICT, at the award ceremony. Aside from Huawei Kenya, technology firms Redington, Sybl Limited, Next Technologies, Smoothtel, Express Auto, Computech and Atlancis have also offered internships to the achievers of the competition. Huawei drives a variety of projects focussing on nurturing young ICT skills talents to address skill shortages. Other initiatives include the Digital Literacy initiative for rural citizens getting broadband for the first time, Digital skills for life (DSL) program for form-four leavers, Seeds for the Future program for undergraduates, Graduate Training Programme and support for the Presidential Digital Talent program (PDTP). The 2018 Competition has also been launched in over 10 African countries including South Africa, Nigeria and Zambia. It attracted more than 20,000 participants this year compared to only 1,000 in 2017.