Kenya’s tourism industry is expecting a big boost next month when a number of charter flights are scheduled to land in the coastal city of Mombasa with December holidaymakers. The increase in flights is a major boost to tourism that has been picking up following the lapse and withdrawal of travel advisories that key European markets had issued earlier. Some of the world’s major charter operators such as TUI Netherlands and TUI Belgium have resumed operations to the Kenyan coast following earlier suspensions linked to security fears in the coastal region. TUI, the largest tour operator in the world, resumed resumed charter flights to Mombasa early this month and more visitors are expected in the coastal city when Qatar Airways launches its inaugural flight to city in December. The gulf carrier joins others such as Turkish Airlines, RwandaAir and Ethiopian Airlines that operate scheduled flights to the coastal tourist hub targeting holiday makers. Kenya Tourism Federation (KTF) chairperson Mohammed Hersi said 20 charter flights are already flying tourists to Mombasa every week up from five during the same period last year. “Many airlines are coming back and that is very good news for us because it means more tourists will come here and that is good business,” he said. Mr Hersi said negotiations with the United Kingdom were ongoing to resume operations in Mombasa after it suspended services following an upsurge of insecurity in the country. Domestic pick-up Meanwhile, tourism stakeholders say there's a spike in bookings made by local tourists. Tsavo and Amboseli tourism circuit chairperson Willie Mwadilo said the area had recorded a many reservations with a high number of visitors being locals. Mr Mwadilo, who is also the manager of Sarova Taita Hills Game Lodge and Sarova Saltlick Hotel, said they were fully booked until February next year. “Despite the increase in the number of international tourists, domestic tourism has also picked up,” he said. He noted that mainland visitors preferred travelling through the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) to Tsavo to see wildlife before proceeding to Mombasa for a beach holiday. Battlefield tourism Stakeholders recently ventured into battlefield tourism to attract visitors to Taita Taveta County. The county was an epicenter of World War One where Britain and Germany fought each other in 1914-1918. Last week the world marked 100 years since the end of the fierce battle. A series of events were scheduled in the county attracting three envoys from Britain, Germany and Australia. They were Nick Hailey (UK), Annette Gunter (Germany) and Jonathan Ball (Australia). Some of the battlefield sites are Mwashoti, Voi, Mwaktau and Taveta War Graves. Mr Hersi said the KTF was aiming at promoting the product in the European market to attract families of those who took part in the war.