Kenyans are bracing for a public transport crisis Monday as the government cracks down on non-compliant matatus, with operators set to withdraw their vehicles from roads in response to the move. The regulations, popularly known as the ‘Michuki rules’, have been in place since December 2003, but in recent years enforcement and compliance has gone down leading to an increase in accidents that have cost thousands of lives. Businesses are likely to feel the pain as well as workers struggle to get to their premises, as has been the case in previous standoffs between the public transport operators and the government. Last Monday, a crackdown on errant matatus—seen as a dress rehearsal for today’s major operation— precipitated an increase in fares across the city. Matatus that normally charge between Sh70 and Sh100 from the estates to the city centre during the morning rush hour were charging between Sh150 and Sh200, taking advantage of the scarcity of vehicles on the road. Taxi operators, especially those offering their services using hailing apps, are likely to be the big winners today should the boycott go on as planned. Their charges go up whenever there is a significant increase in demand or heavy traffic—normally known as a surge— in order to encourage as many drivers as possible to keep on the road to serve customers. Last Monday, taxi charges on some routes where demand was highest went up by up to double the normal fare. Private motorists are also likely to take advantage of the boycott and ferry passengers to town. Transport secretary James Macharia and his Interior counterpart Fred Matiang’i last month gave matatus operators up to Monday to comply with the Michuki rules. Dr Matiang’i on Saturday confirmed that the crackdown will go on as planned, telling matatu operators that they must adhere to the rules even as they engage the government on the matter. On their part, the Federation of Public Transport Operators said that they have decided to withdraw their vehicles from service to allow operators to meet the transport guidelines, adding that they are uncertain on some aspects of the rules including whether vehicle owners and Sacco officials are to be charged for offences committed by drivers and conductors. The Michuki rules stipulate that public transport operators must fit their vehicles with seat belts and speed governors limiting the top speed to 80 kilometres per hour, as well as have a yellow continuous line on the side of the vehicle. Drivers and conductors are also required to be in uniform, with the driver’s photo displayed prominently in the vehicle. The rules are aimed at curbing accidents that claimed about 2,214 lives in the nine months to September, according to the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA).