The Senate Public Accounts Committee has called for an audit of pending bills in counties expressing fear that some governors may have introduced shady debts in a bid to mint millions from taxpayers. The committee, chaired by Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang, pointed out that the pending bills amounting to Sh96.5 billion as at June last year were too big hence the need for a forensic audit. “The bills could be another scandal that is yet to be exposed. You will find that only 10 per cent of the money is genuine, the rest has been introduced by governors,” Mr Kajwang said yesterday when the committee met with Isiolo governor Mohammed Kuti over the auditor-general’s report covering the 2014/2015 financial year. Pending bills of counties grew from Sh37.8 billion in the 2014/15 financial year to Sh37.3 billion in 2015/16 to peak at Sh96.5 billion last June. The debts had accumulated to Sh99 billion by the end of September last year. Recently, the Office of the Controller of Budget cited inability to meet revenue targets, reckless spending and irregular hiring of staff as some of the causes of the debts accumulated over the last four years. Auditor-General Edward Ouko also, in his report on spending in counties in the past four years, attributed the huge pending bills to failure by governors to effectively manage procurement. According to the annual County Budget Implementation Review Report for 2016/2017, Turkana had pending bills of Sh2.9 billion, Nandi Sh813.5 million, Elgeyo Marakwet Sh785 million and Baringo Sh91.4 million as at June 30, 2017. Some governors have accused contractors of inflating costs even after doing shoddy work. A hall in Kapenguria, initially valued at Sh26 million, later cost Sh41 million but work is not complete. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o set up a task force to look into Sh3 billion owed to service providers that did business with the previous regime. “Governors should be aware that failure to provide documents demanded by auditors is a crime and the senate will not take the matter lightly,” Mr Kajwang warned. He pointed out that most governors fail to avail documents to auditors during auditing but take the same to parliament when invited.