A commuter train service has been launched between Kajiado town and the techonocity Konza, a step that is expected to ease movement, delivering speed and affordable charges cost. It is a partnership between Tata Chemicals and the county government of Kajiado. The 162-seater will run two trips daily for five days a week, stopping at five stations within the 42-kilometre stretch at Sh30. Previously, residents would cover a combined more than 70 kilometres and pay up to Sh500 from Kajiado to Kitengela and eventually reaching Mombasa Road. The new commuter train shall be using the old Magadi-konza railway commonly used by Tata Chemicals when transporting raw material from Magadi to Konza. Joseph ole Lenku, the governor, said during the launch of the new service that it would provide a reliable and convenient connection to the standard gauge railway in Syokiamau for tourists and business people moving between Nairobi and Mombasa, a four-hour journey that has been promoted at Sh700 one way for the Economy Class. It is expected that the new service will create more businesses between the two towns. Among the first beneficiaries will be herders who sell their livestock and women selling wares in Emali market. ''We have been planning for a journey from Konza to Kajiado to seek medical services at Kajiado Referral Hospital, ending up depleting our resources. It is a big reprieve and we expect our lives to improve,'' said James Sekut, who has been on a dialysis programme at the Kajiado Referral Hospital for the past six months. READ: Konza tech city gets Sh400m more in Budget On average, more than 500 commuters ply the Kajiado-Konza route on the Emali market day and 200 daily. Tata Chemicals managing director Jackson Muchira said public-private partnerships will go along way in ensuring sustainable development. "We are committed to ease transport suffering for Kajiado residents by providing affordable and reliable means of transport that shall also boost local residents economically'' said Mr Muchira Mr ole Lenku said the initiative would boost trade in the region through ease of movement.