Kirinyaga MCAs have received Sh300 million from the county government for development projects in wards. The allocation, dubbed Ward Development Fund, will see each of the 20 wards get Sh15 million, County Assembly Majority Leader Kamau Mulango has said. Mr Mulango lauded Governor Anne Waiguru's administration for releasing the funds, saying the initiative will ensure that residents enjoy the fruits of devolution. Allocation of the money is in accordance with the Kirinyaga County Assembly Wards Development Fund Act, 2014, whose objective is to facilitate development and poverty eradication at the village level. Mr Mulango said the fund, which mirrors the national government's Constituency Development Fund, is meant to take development to residents' doorsteps. Speaking when he issued bursary cheques to needy students in Inoi Ward on Wednesday, Mr Mulango said the money will see more development projects initiated. He said that MCAs will manage the kitty and oversee the county's development agenda in their respective wards. "The governor’s move to increase bursary allocation and ensure equal distribution of money in all the 20 wards is a welcome relief and a break from the biased trends of the past. “There is a great need for county executives, the county assembly, other leaders and citizens to work together," said the Kerugoya Ward representative. READ: Kirinyaga plans Sh10bn real estate project around Thiba dam The cheques issued were part of the Sh70 million bursary fund launched by Ms Waiguru last month. Mr Mulango condemned politicians who incite the public against the governor. "Such acts will not be tolerated. Those in office must be allowed to implement their agenda and deliver on their promises. Leaders must be tolerant," he said. Mr Mulango said that Ms Waiguru had ensured equal distribution of resources and development across the county. He said that it was an indication that the county was headed in the right direction. Mr Mulango was accompanied by County Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman David Mathenge , among others.