Detectives from the Serious Crimes Investigations Division and the Government Chemist Monday took samples from eight employees of Moi Girls School Nairobi, among them six teachers, for forensic analysis. An officer from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said the probe targets male staff who live within the school or those believed to have been at the school during the time of rape early Saturday morning. The DCI sent letters to the staff members on Sunday evening, ordering them to make themselves available for DNA sampling, as stipulated under Section 122A(1) of the penal code. The males were ordered to do so as they were “suspected jointly with others, to have committed the offence of defilement”. The DNA tests will either place the eight suspects at the scene of crime or exonerate them. Monday morning, the detectives made their way to the school’s staff room to extract buccal swabs from the male teachers, as old students, parents, leaders and anti-rape crusaders held demonstrations outside the school, demanding the resignation or interdiction of the school principal, Jael Murithi. “We want the head teacher removed from this school. First of all, she has proved incapable of running the school. She should have been sent away after the fire. Secondly, the ministry transferred the head teachers who had stayed in schools for five years. This principal has stayed here for more than 13 years,” a demonstrator, Editta Ochieng’, said. She was accompanied by the Laini Saba Member of County Assembly Cecilia Achieng among others who were clad in different school uniforms. Other parents alleged that the school management had intentionally exercised laxity in security in order to compel parents to pay Sh27,000 security fee that was communicated to them on March 28. “We were asked to appoint one parent per class, who would open an account not linked to the school account. Only less than 20 parents agreed to pay the amount,” a parent said. Parents claimed their daughters reported having seen intruders in the school but they were dismissed. “There were times students reported that the construction workers on the upcoming dormitory block used to drop them notes wrapped in letters with mobile phone numbers. The teachers and the matron, Ms Monica Wambui, dismissed them,” another parent said. MPs Millie Odhiambo, Samuel Atandi, Alfred Keter and John Muchiri asked the government to allocate more funds to schools to build wall fences. “As Parliament resumes its sittings today, we need to critically look at the legislation that can protect our girls because they face a lot of problems,” Mr Atandi said.