Troubled retail chain Nakumatt owes Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) Sh2.3 billion in unpaid taxes as details emerged when the retailer fell into trouble. The KRA told the Senate committee on Trade and Investments that troubles at Nakumatt started from July 2016 when its financial problems led to empty shelves and store closures, hurt by mounting supplier and bank debts. The committee is probing reasons behind the near collapse of retail outlets including listed Uchumi Supermarkets  . “Indeed our problems with Nakumatt do not date back many years. We collected about Sh1.5 billion from Nakumatt in 2015/16 and Sh1.3 billion in 2014/15 financial year,” said the KRA. The taxman said the trouble started in the financial year 2016/17 when the total annual collection from Nakumatt dropped down to Sh761 million, just about half of the total taxes. Nakumatt owes creditors including landlords and suppliers as much as Sh40 billion, and has shut several branches in the race to remain afloat. John Njiraini, the KRA commissioner-general, said the authority did implement the 2017 gazette notice that sought to auction Nakumatt properties to recover the Sh2 billion because the government was working on a rescue plan. READ: Audit reveals Nakumatt suffered Sh18bn fraud Mr Njiraini told senators that Nakumatt failed to honour two conditions that would have seen the KRA relax demand for payment of outstanding taxes. “I sat with then KCB  appointed receiver manager for Nakumatt in 2016 to agree on tax payment plan. They wanted elongated period for recovery to pay the tax and we couldn’t accommodate because our polices allowup to six month or at most a year to pay taxes. They were not able to do that,” he said. Mr Njiraini said the KRA and Nakumatt then agreed to establish a special account to handle taxes before the plan collapsed. READ: Nakumatt in fresh row with several landlords Mr Njiraini reckons there is need for regulation of large corporations irrespective of whether they are private or public. “We realise that it’s less the owners, but employees and manufacturers who suffer when a company is liquidated,” he said. “When companies reach a certain size because of impact on economy or public there is need for regulation. Should it be by Capital Markets Authority or another authority? To me we should ensure we have independent boards to run them,” Mr Njiraini said.