The government has put on notice mining companies that have failed to meet their contractual requirements as defined by law. Speaking in Mwatate during the minerals rights stakeholders conference, Petroleum and Mining Cabinet Secretary John Munyes said mining firms must ensure locals benefit from excavation of minerals in their areas. Mr Munyes said the community must actively be involved in the process of consultations, agreements and monitoring of compliance by the firms. He said mining companies must sit down with the communities to see how residents can be involved in projects meant to benefit them directly. “The consent must start from the community first. Some of the problems faced by mining firms are due to lack of consultation between the companies and the community,” he said. Royalty fund The CS also said the ministry is formulating a framework to set up a royalty fund to be used to remit the money to communities. He said the ministry is in talks with the treasury to ensure the cash paid by mining firms will be remitted back to counties and to the community. “According to the Mining Act 2016, 70 per cent goes to the national government, 20 per cent goes to the county government and the remaining 10 per cent will be channelled to the community,” he said. He said they had agreed with the members of parliament that the fund will be set up in two months time. He opposed the proposal by the Commission on Revenue Allocation seeking to identify marginalised areas within counties and dropping Taita Taveta from the list. Equalisation fund The county is currently among the 14 that benefit from the fund. The CS noted that despite the fact that the county is endowed with numerous resources, residents do not benefit as expected. He, however, said the government will ensure it involves all stakeholders for locals to reap from the minerals. “The potential of this county regarding minerals is very huge. We will ensure that these minerals benefit locals. We will make sure this county becomes the mining destination in the country,” he said. Voi MP Jones Mlolwa said the ministry has a role to play in ensuring the minerals benefit the residents. “We have been asking ourselves why despite many mineral deposits in this area locals don’t benefit. The CS must help us solve some of the problems we’re facing,” he said. Govt support Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako said residents will benefit from the sector if they receive support from the national government. “Artisanal miners also need your support,” he said. Also present in the forum were Senator Jones Mwaruma and Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui who called for the full operationalisation of the Mining law. They also urged miners to follow the law by acquiring the required licences from the county and national government.