Counterfeit goods worth about Sh46 million were on Friday impounded from a Chinese warehouse in Nairobi amid a government crackdown on illicit trade. The goods, including stone coated roofing tiles and PVC gutters, are at Hilloces godown along Enterprise Road in Industrial Area awaiting destruction as their owners are expected to be prosecuted. “These products are not certified by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and therefore, they are considered not fit for use in the country,” said Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) Commissioner for Intelligence and Strategic Operations Githii Mburu. Mombasa crackdown Meanwhile at the coast, the taxman impounded a consignment of counterfeit cables imported from China estimated to be worth Sh50 million. KRA Deputy Commissioner for Southern Region, Nicholas Kinoti, said the goods impounded at three container freight stations in Mombasa were declared as consolidated goods. He said if allowed into the country, it would have a negative impact locally including loss of jobs and compromised consumer safety. “A multi-agency team discovered counterfeit cables labelled East Africa Cables and Coast cable companies...They also had labels indicated as ‘Made in Kenya’,” he said, adding that the crackdown will continue to protect Kenyan consumers and the local manufacturing sector. According to KRA, the counterfeit and concealed power cables were impounded between May 21 and 31 at Console base, Auto Port and Portside container freight stations. The goods were declared by Sunrise Investment Group, Ultimate clearing and forwarding and Safe landing logistics Limited who had been contracted by the cargo owners. Addressing the media at Portside CFS where the goods are being held, Mr Kinoti said the consignees of the contraband imports from China were Felgit International Ltd, Revelations Global Logistics and Almiftah investment ltd. “Two suspects associated to the containers have been arrested and charged in court, some of them are still on the run but we are pursuing them,” he said. READ: Import cargo set for 100 per cent inspection in fake goods war ALSO READ: KRA raises alarm over illicit China cigarettes