Five Ngirita family members on Wednesday pleaded with a Nairobi court to reduce their bond terms saying they could not raise the Sh5 million cash bail to secure their release. The Ngiritas, through lawyer Cliff Ombeta, told Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti that their accounts and assets were frozen when they were arraigned in court in relation to the loss of Sh469 million at the National Youth Service (NYS). The family includes their mother Lucy Wambui, daughters Ann Wanjiku Wambere and Phyllis, Jeremiah Gichini and his wife Catherine Wanjiku Mwai. Ann, through her company Annwaw, is alleged to have received more than Sh74 million from NYS while her mother, through her company Waluko Investments allegedly received Sh59 million. Jerrycathy Enterprises, belonging to Jeremiah, allegedly received Sh72 million while Kunjiwa Enterprises, belonging to Wanjiku, is said to have received Sh23 million. Mr Ombeta told the court that it was difficult for family members to get surety. But Mr Ogoti said he could not vary the bond terms because the trial was yet to start. High Court Judge Hedwig Ong’udi, while releasing the suspects on bond, said they could make an application on the terms. Mr Ogoti said parties could approach the court, once they were ready with the requirements, for processing of their release. The magistrate reminded the parties that they were required to present their securities in court and a copy of identification cards or passports, a valuation report on the security and a letter of verification from the investigation officer. READ: High Court frees 47 NYS scandal suspects on bond By 3pm Wednesday, it emerged that most of the accused had deposited the cash bail and were awaiting verification of sureties to secure their freedom. Suspended NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai paid the cash and deposited a car logbook worth Sh4 million. His brother provided surety for him. His co-accused Finance Chief Officer Wellington Lubira deposited two logbooks for car worth Sh3.5 million while his wife was ready to stand surety for him. Lucy Ngirita paid the Sh1 million cash and a relative provided surety for her. Pre-trial could not proceed on Wednesday after lawyers said they were yet to be served with all witness statements. Mr Ogoti directed defence lawyers to pick witness statements on Monday. The parties will appear in court for pre-trial on July 17. On Tuesday, Justice Ong’udi directed each of the accused to deposit bond of Sh5 million plus surety of Sh2 million. Further, each was to deposit Sh1 million in court pending determination of their cases.