Rainfall is expected to return to western parts of the country this week while the northern parts will remain warm and dry, according to Kenya Meteorological Department. Kenya Meteorological Services director Peter Ambenje said that areas within Lake Victoria basin, highlands around Rift Valley and the Coastal strip will receive rains for the next seven days. He said that Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties will experience afternoon showers and thunderstorms. “A few areas within the Lake Victoria basin, the highlands West, Central and South of Rift Valley and the Coastal Strip are likely to receive some rainfall,” said Mr Ambenje Wednesday. However, the Central highlands, including Nairobi, and the south eastern part of the country will experience mainly cool and cloudy conditions for much of the week. According to the latest seven-day weather forecast covering between June 19 and 25 released by the weatherman on Tuesday, Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale Counties will experience morning showers over few places between Thursday and Saturday. The rest of the days, however, are likely to be mainly sunny during the day and partly cloudy at night. READ: Birds and rain wreck KBL sorghum plans in Nyanza READ: Floods drain farmers' hopes in North Rift READ: BWIRE: Proper co-ordination needed to tackle floods Cool and cloudy In the counties of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi, mainly cool and cloudy mornings with a possibility of rains giving way to short sunny intervals will be experienced during the week. There is also a possibility of afternoon showers occurring over few places throughout the forecast period. Northern Kenya counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will experience sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy conditions during the night for much of the forecast period. In the afternoon, nonetheless, showers and thunderstorms are likely to be experienced over few places on Saturday while morning rains are likely over few places on Sunday. Over to northeastern counties of Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, mainly sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy skies during the night weather will be experienced during the week. Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta Counties lying in the south eastern lowlands will experience mainly cool and cloudy mornings breaking into sunny intervals and partly cloudy skies during the night throughout the forecast period.