Large parts of Central Kenya and the North Rift could once again be hit by flash floods and mudslides with expected return of heavy rains, the meteorological department warned yesterday. Heavy rainfall of more than 40 millimetres is also expected to pound Central highlands in the next 24 hours raising the risk of landslides in the area. “Those living in urban areas are advised to be on the lookout for potential flash floods. Keep to safer grounds until the flooding subsides. Flood water may suddenly appear in places where it hasn’t rained heavily and can be deeper and faster than it looks,” said Kenya Meteorological Department director Peter Ambenje. The list of counties with high risk of flooding includes Turkana, Marsabit, Samburu, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Bungoma, Baringo, Nakuru, Laikipia, Isiolo, Nyandarua, Kirinyaga, Meru, Tharaka-Nithi, Embu, Kiambu, Nairobi, Murang’a and Nyeri. Cereal and horticultural farmers in the North Rift have been counting huge losses after thousands of acres under crop were submerged in flood waters. The rains have also interrupted application of top-dressing fertiliser on maize because it risks being washed away.Horticulture farmers have also been counting losses as they cannot access markets after most roads were rendered impassable. ALSO READ: KenGen: Don't blame us for floods At least 112 people have died since the rains started falling in March, while over 260, 000 have been displaced according to the Kenya Red Cross Society. “Continue listening to local media as updates will be provided if conditions change significantly. Further advisories will be issued as we follow upon the progress of this weather event,” said the weatherman. Five people died following a landslide in Murang’a County in April. This came after Mombasa Road was closed at Athi River after the bridge was submerged by floods. The rains have also aggravated the fault lines in the Rift Valley, which has been splitting further. Narok County has been most affected by the phenomenon. More than 300 families have also been displaced in Nandi as the rains continue. Several dams have reached their maximum capacity with the worst situation being the Solai dam burst which killed more than forty people and wiped out an entire village. Persistent heavy rains in most parts of the country have rendered many major roads impassable and slowed down long-distance commuter bus business, driving the operators into millions of shillings in losses.