Gaming machine operators have threatened to cite Nakuru County administrators and the police for contempt of court over ongoing crackdown of their businesses despite a court order. Officials destroyed close to 1,000 betting machines this week in operations against illegal gambling shops. But according to the Counties Amusement and Gaming Society, through chairman Sammy Kahiu, the crackdown also affected genuine businesses and is illegal due to a 2016 court order stopping the same. He urged the Ministry of Interior and County governments to instead focus on unregulated gaming carried out online, adding that the Nakuru businesses have adhered to all regulations and are operating legally. Theft He also accused county and police officers of taking advantage of the swoops to steal money found inside the machines. Mr Kahiu also claimed that some were selling the slot machines after confiscation. In an affidavit, Ms Mary Wanjiru - who operates gaming and betting machines - said the machines have been duly registered. “County Governments regulate and supervise our businesses to ensure that they have no harmful effect to society and particularly children who are not allowed to engage in gaming activities. The allegation that our machines are a danger to national security are false and malicious given that the Constitution envisages and provides for gambling,” she argued. The Betting Control and Licensing Board has, however, defended the directive saying it is within the law. “In the premises the Betting Act has no application to betting, casinos and other forms of gambling that fall within the jurisdiction of Counties pursuant to paragraph 4 of Part 2 of the fourth Schedule of the Constitution,” the petition reads. In their response, Council of Governors CEO Jacqueline Mogeni asked the court to direct the matter be resolved through mechanisms established under the Inter-governmental Act. READ: MPs reject halving of tax on betting to 15pc Sh20m betting entry fee to lock out small operators