The Employment and Labour Relations Court has revoked a decision by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) to downgrade income and job groups of the 47 clerks of county assemblies.Justice Nzioki wa Makau also permanently stopped the SRC from implementing a job evaluation report on the clerks, declaring the move unlawful and discriminatory. “The constitutional licence the SRC enjoys is not one to act wantonly and where there is breach of the principles and the law, courts will not hesitate to step in and correct the error. "That is not by means usurping the constitutional mandate of the SRC,” said Justice Makau while sitting in Nyeri Law Courts on Monday.He found that the commission evaluated the clerks’ jobs in 2016 without involving them and later made a report and recommendations to the government. The report dubbed 'Job Evaluation Results for the Public Sector' was conducted in efforts to harmonise salaries for public workers.“The County Government structure is a microcosm of the national government. The county assembly in character mirrors the National Assembly. "The clerk of the county assembly is not in middle-level management but in the band of senior specialists and top executives,” said Judge Makau.He explained that the clerks fit in Job Group E and not D where they were put by SRC. Subordinate position He added that they are the chief executive officers of the county assemblies and therefore they cannot be deemed to be in a subordinate position.The court heard that the commission reduced the clerks job categories to subordinate positions and classified them into a group that is commensurate with their roles.“SRC erred in banding the clerks in band B and D of the Patterson classification instead of B and E3. "The classification at D while other accounting officers and CEOs are placed at E is discriminatory and must be varied forthwith,” ruled Justice Makau. On its side, the commission told the judge that the clerks were permitted to participate. It said the clerks gave their input which led to the new groupings and job evaluation.Constitutional mandate The SRC asserted that the job evaluation is its constitutional mandate and cannot be usurped by any other body and the clerks’ rights to fair administrative action were not violated. The court heard that the re-evaluation was conducted according to a court order dated March 28, 2017.Through their lawyer, SRC said upgrading the petitioners’ job group would burden Kenyan tax payers.He submitted that the petitioners had not met legal threshold to move the court to issue a permanent injunction on the evaluation report.“A permanent injunction can only be granted if there is proof the job evaluation threatens the entire job evaluation in public sector. "The law serves the public interest and it is not in the public interest to stop implementation of the job evaluation report whose results have been implemented in State corporations, Civil Service, State officers, independent commissions and the Teachers Service,” SRC told the court in its defence.