Dockers are now blaming suspended Kenya Ports Authority managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi for the woes that has affected the facility in Mombasa. The Dock Workers Union secretary-general, Simon Sang, Thursday said the sending home of the MD was eminent due to the port’s poor performance. Speaking on phone Thursday, Mr Sang who heads the group of over 5,000 workers, said the move on the MD was expected. “We saw it coming. We were very worried when performance started going down because it was likely to provoke the issue of privatisation,” Mr Sang said. “The port cannot be sustained as a public entity when it’s not performing...we are now pushing for performance contract because it will make us the top spot within Africa,” Mr Sang said. He said dock workers are worried over the state of the port. “In terms of ships turnaround, the yards need to be very organised so that our clients do not complain. We are competing with very many ports. The MD is always the determinant of performance or non-performance,” noted the secretary general. READ: KPA boss Mturi-Wairi sent on forced leave - VIDEO Compulsory leave Ms Wairi was on Wednesday night sent on compulsory leave over inefficiency and cargo delays at the Port of Mombasa, less than two years after she was confirmed on the job. The decision to send her packing was made after a special board meeting chaired by Mr Michael Maina and attended by Transport Principal Secretary Paul Maringa. Mr Maina is a member of the board and acted as chairman because Marsden Madoka is away in the US. The meeting resolved that Daniel Manduku takes over in an acting capacity for two months pending further directions. Manduku, an architect, has been the chief executive of the National Construction Authority. “We were unable to evacuate a lot of cargoes to our clients. We will release more information; we are doing housekeeping. But the decision was due to lack of effective leadership, non-responsive work culture, consistent failure to implement board resolutions, the absence of explicit performance targets and the failure to implement them,” Mr Maina said.