Bungoma County officials who were last week found guilty of inflating the cost of ordinary wheelbarrows could be asked to pay the State more than Sh900,000 if a court allows the last-minute demand. As the seven officials gathered in court in Kakamega to await their sentencing, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission filed a notice demanding that the rogue officials refund the Sh929,880 lost in fraudulent transactions in 2015. The latest move by EACC led to a further delay in the sentencing of the accused after Kakamega chief magistrate Bildad Ochieng’ put off the matter until Friday. An audit of the procurement indicated they spent as much as Sh100,000 on a wheelbarrow, 25 times the average cost at the time. The officials defended the expenditure, saying the equipment was more advanced than the ordinary wheelbarrows. On Monday, lawyers for the EACC argued the loss of the money was occasioned by the corrupt conduct of the accused. The anti-graft agency is also seeking to have the respondents pay interest at prescribed rates on the amount recovered from them in addition to costs of the application and other orders and directions deemed necessary by the court. READ: Bungoma youth petition EACC on wheelbarrows Grace Omweri, for the EACC, filed the three-page notice that was served to the legal team representing the seven shortly before the start of proceedings on Monday. “It is in the interest of justice and public interest that the respondents herein compensate the county government of Bungoma for the loss of public funds due [to] their corrupt conduct and economic crimes as provided under Section 51, 53 and 54 of the Anticorruption and Economic Crimes Act,” EACC argued. Under the Act, the agency could actually demand that further financial penalties be imposed on convicts even if already fined by the court. The commission argued that the suspects ought to refund the money because it was a proceed of an economic crime. The Act allows the magistrate to impose a fine or a jail term of not more than 10 years.