Parliament has stopped the Treasury from effecting any mid-year budget changes touching on the four sectors President Uhuru Kenyatta has picked to drive growth during his final term in office. In a move that is aimed to ring-fence the Sh97.3 billion set aside for Mr Kenyatta’s ‘Big Four’ economic plan, the Budget and Appropriations Committee (BAC) says in its report that any changes to the spending plans must not touch the identified sectors to ensure timely completion of projects in the year starting next month. “Any budgetary changes within the year should not affect projects related to manufacturing unless substantial reason is provided along with a plan on how this will be mitigated,” Kimani Ichung’wa, who chairs BAC, said in the report on the Budget Estimates for the financial year 2018/19 that Parliament adopted last Thursday. The decision is in response to Mr Kenyatta’s March plea to Parliament to help anchor his second term’s economic agenda with speedy passage of legislation that is needed to roll out its pillars commonly known as the ‘Big Four’. “This dream (Big Four) is going to become a reality if we all join hands to eliminate barriers to its realisation, through legislation and new policies to incentivize the private sector,” the President said during his State of the Nation address to Parliament. READ: Uhuru pushes "big four' agenda to counties, warns on corruption Mr Kenyatta is working to actualise his dream of transforming Kenya using the four key sectors -- universal healthcare, manufacturing, affordable housing and food security. “Given the importance of finalising the projects in infrastructure, manufacturing and agriculture sectors, resources allocated for the projects should be ring-fenced and a proper monitoring and evaluation framework put in place to ensure timely completion,” the report says. Treasury secretary Henry Rotich told the committee that a total of Sh97.3 billion has been set aside in the financial year starting July to roll out the Big Four plan. “In order to address bottlenecks that prevent the economy from achieving full potential, the government will focus on the Big Four plan targets which entail value addition and raising the manufacturing sector’s share of gross domestic product (GDP) to 15 per cent by 2022,” Mr Rotich said in final submissions to the committee. To show the government’s commitment to driving industrialisation, Mr Rotich said Sh3.1 billion had been provided in the coming financial year to build an industrial park.