A former senior civil servant has applied for a licence to prospect for carbon dioxide in Murang’a, raising prospects for the predominantly agricultural region to add mining to its income base. Plans to start the search have been made public in a gazette notice indicating that a former diplomat, Emma Wangechi Murai, who also served as a senior official in the Ministry of Education, has applied for an exploration licence. Ms Murai is seeking permission to search for the gas within Kahuro sub-county following a recent discovery of traces of the gas during the drilling of a borehole at her rural home. Mining principal secretary confirmed that the gaseous mineral being sought is carbon dioxide and that the search will cover an area of 2.56 square kilometres. “Notice is hereby given by virtue of Section 34 of the Mining Act that an application for a prospecting licence, whose details and area boundary schedule are 2.5652km square …Kahuro area, Murang’a County, []for]… gaseous minerals,” said the notice. Mining of carbon dioxide is currently under way near Kimende, a small centre located less than 20 kilometres from Limuru town on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. The gas is used in preservation of alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks. Traces of the gaseous substance were initially found just a few hundred metres from the Kahuro subcounty headquarters, some 20 kilometres from Murang’a town. Sources further said that some companies that use carbon dioxide and other gases in their manufacturing processes visited the area and expressed interested in buying Ms Murai’s land where traces of the gas were found more than a year ago. No deal was struck with the manufacturers. Petroleum and Mining secretary John Munyes says in the latest notice that any objection to the granting of the prospective licence must be made in writing and addressed to him within 21 days beginning Friday, June 22. An IMF 2018 report, focusing on Canadian carbon dioxide mining, says Canadian authorities have put the global prices at a minimum of Sh750 per tonne, but researchers expect it to stand Sh3,900 per tonne by 2021. READ: Tycoon Kariuki to build Sh40bn Mozambique gas power plant Poor left out of mining profits as 'resource curse' hits Kenya