A section of Coast politicians and Kaya elders have defended former Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) boss Ms Catherine Mturi Wairi who was sent on compulsory leave last week over inefficiencies. The KPA board had said the decision to send her home was also due to lack of effective leadership and a non-responsive work culture. In addition, the board cited consistent failure to implement board resolutions and the absence of explicit performance targets and the failure to implement them. The career of KPA's first female managing director ended abruptly on Wednesday last week. She had worked at the agency since 1993 when she joined as a junior accountant, rising through the ranks. Her fate is unknown after the board of management immediately replaced her with Dr Daniel Manduku in an acting capacity. But Kaya elders and Coast leaders now want the government to explain why she was unceremoniously sent on compulsory leave. 'Raise issue in Parliament' “It is sad that she was replaced by a non-local yet we have capable people in Coast region and most specifically Kilifi. "Let’s not shy away from speaking about this issue. I will raise this issue in Parliament when we resume,” Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said. Mr Baya said the region cannot celebrate the country’s attainment of self-independence (Madaraka) yet parastatals in Coast region are headed by non-locals. “Haven’t our women given birth to children who can be selected to head parastatals in this region? "We can only talk about handshake if there is equity in job allocation,” he added. Kilifi Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi said he was also saddened by Ms Mturi’s ouster. “I urge all leaders to ensure we unearth the reasons that led to her ouster and bare out the truth,” the deputy governor said at Karisa Maitha ground during the Madaraka Day celebrations. Follow the laws Mombasa Woman Representative Asha Hussein said laws should be followed in hiring and firing people. “It is a tradition that whenever a Coast native is at the helm of the port he or she is never allowed to finish their terms. Coast leaders lets defend our won. "Recently we were happy that a woman was in charge of the port but she was booted out just like the rest of Coast natives. What is wrong?” asked Ms Hussein. Elders and her acquaintances claim she was ousted from the parastatal with a workforce of over 5,000 due to influential cartels who want to control the port. Kaya elders have threatened to hold massive demonstrations if their "daughter" is not reinstated. “We are saddened by the turn of events. We have discussed this issue holistically as elders and we have resolved to sue the government for her removal. "The port belongs to Mijikenda we deserve the top leadership position,” Stanley Kenga Mbeo Kaya Ribe elder said. The elders urged President Kenyatta to intervene on the matter.