Mombasa County is using artificial grass on the median strips, the middle lawn that separates roads, as part of its city beautification project. Lawns along Nkrumah road have the shiny green synthetic turf, which complements the fresh blue and white paint on buildings across the street. Many buildings within the central business district (CBD) have been painted in Egyptian blue and white colours while red cabro blocks have fixed on the pavements. Some residents support the use of the synthetic grass, largely used in football fields in the county and elsewhere. "As much as it may not be real grass, it will uplift the look of our city and is also advantageous in that there is no or minimal maintenance cost incurred by the county government...I support," Edwin Waweru, a resident, said. READ: NDEMO: Adopt models for building sustainable cities Reduce workers Other residents fear the number of workers who used to weed the lawns and roundabouts will be reduced. "We now know that only few people will be working on the lawns," a resident said. Hoteliers are backing the move, saying it is cost effective and has low maintenance. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) Coast branch executive officer Sam Ikwaye said the turf is appealing and the county will require little water to keep them attractive. “We support all the beautification projects in the county. It is going to uplift the face of the tourist city. The turf is good because it only requires little water. Water shortage As we know, Mombasa sometimes experiences water shortages and with the turf, the city can still look attractive. It is a very good initiative,” Mr Ikwaye said. Coast Skal president Victor Shitakha has lauded the efforts of the county government to beautify the tourist attraction city. “It is great what the county is doing. It is good for the residents of Mombasa. The confidence in the county brought by beautification will also boost tourism,” Mr Shitakha said. This comes as Mombasa gears to host a SKAL International World Class Congress in October with delegates from all over the world. The event dubbed “Congress at the beach’ is a premier event for tourism leaders around the world promoting global tourism and friendship.