Business tycoon Chris Kirubi   is seeking a fresh term to serve as a director of Centum Investments after his return from the US where he had sought specialised treatment. Centum said in a notice to investors that Mr Kirubi, 77, will seek re-election at the firm’s AGM set for September 14.The businessman has maintained a low profile since returning to the country in February from the US where he went last November. “To approve the re-election of Christopher John Kirubi, a director retiring by rotation and who being eligible, presents himself for re-election,” notes the agenda of the AGM. He is the single-largest shareholder of the Nairobi Securities Exchange traded firm with a 28.64 per cent stake. Mr Kirubi has wide-ranging business interests in publicly listed as well as private companies. He holds leadership positions in at least 10 companies and organisations, including a non-executive directorship at Centum Investments. His business interests are diverse, ranging from broadcasting, Capital Media Group, to manufacturing — Haco Tiger Brands. READ: Haco, BIC in crunch talks over two-decade partnership He served as chairman of Centum between 1998 and 2003. He chairs the board of Haco Tiger Brands where he has a 49 per cent stake. Mr Kirubi is currently negotiating a deal in which he is set to become the sole shareholder of the company after buying back 51 per cent from the South African company Tiger Brands. He also heads the board of Nairobi Bottlers, a local franchisee of Coca-Cola, which accounts for 47 per cent of all beverage sales in Kenya. READ: Kirubi completes buyback of Haco from South African firm In June it became public that Mr Kirubi owns 45 per cent of agrochemical firm Bayer East Africa, a firm that is set for a merger with the local subsidiary of Monsanto as part of a larger global transaction valued at Sh6.2 trillion. He has previously said that property is the foundation of his business empire and International House in Nairobi’s central business district is one of his most iconic investments. Through Centum Investments, he has an interest in some of East Africa’s most ambitious property developments including Two Rivers in Gigiri and the Pearl Marina Project in Uganda.