The second-highest official in the US State Department hinted yesterday that compensation may be forthcoming for Kenyan victims of the Nairobi embassy bombing 20 years ago. Speaking to a commemorative gathering at the State Department, Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan noted a point made to him by Prudence Bushnell, the US ambassador to Kenya at the time of the attack. “Ambassador Bushnell has impressed upon me the need ... to continue to work to make sure that the United States government not only remembers but does all that it needs to, to make everyone impacted by those events to be made whole — to be respected and made whole.” Advocates for Kenyans affected by August 7, 1998, attack have argued in part that the US should make reparations because it had failed to protect the Nairobi embassy from terrorist violence. Ms Bushnell has on several occasions stated that she had urged the State Department to bolster security at the embassy. Her pleas went unheeded. Tuesday, she recalled being told, “that the richest nation in the world did not have the resources to fix an embassy that did not even meet our own security standards”. Ms Bushnell said in an interview with the Business Daily last year that she believes Kenyans are entitled to compensation for injuries and losses suffered in the attack. While Mr Sullivan did not explicitly pledge yesterday that compensation would be paid to Kenyans harmed by the bombing, a standard US legal dictionary defines the term to be “made whole” as synonymous with payment of damages. Phillip Musolino, an attorney representing 538 Kenyan citizens affected by the bombing, said last week that he would continue pressing for US government monetary compensation until it is provided. In the years immediately following the bombing, the US Agency for International Development did make payments of nearly $45 million mainly for medical expenses to the families of 173 Kenyans killed or injured in the explosion. However, Kenyans unaffiliated with the US embassy in Nairobi have not received any monetary compensation for the damages they suffered in the attack.