The arrest and arraignment of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s wife took a dramatic turn after an audio tape emerged in which he and his Nairobi counterpart, Mike Sonko, were captured negotiating her release on the phone. In the clip, Mr Waititu is heard negotiating with Mr Sonko for the release of his wife and other workers who were arrested for undertaking unapproved construction in a Nairobi central business district building. The Kiambu governor’s wife, Susan Wangare, was later in the day charged before the Nairobi City magistrate with occupation of a building structure without permission from the county government. She was released on a cash bail of Sh80,000. Thirteen workers arrested alongside Mrs Waititu were separately charged with constructing a building without approval from the urban and physical planning department. The Koinange Street building houses Jamii Bora Bank while the other is Delta Hotel on Moi Avenue. “Release all the guys, Sonko. We have come from far and together we are headed far,” Mr Waititu is overheard pleading with Mr Sonko in Kiswahili. READ: Despite law, disabled ignored in building plans READ: Kiambu governor defies court order to merge water firms Adamant The Nairobi governor, however, remains adamant on the request, holding that the arrest was “an order from above” as part of the intensified war against corruption. He offers to “break the law” and order her release, but maintains that the other workers were to be charged before the City County court. Mr Sonko then advises Mr Waititu and his wife to apply for approval from his government for the building plans. “I am breaking the law in ordering your release. As for the rest, Mzee [Mr Waititu] should call mdosi (the boss),” Mr Sonko is heard telling Mrs Waititu. The Nairobi governor has been engaged in a war of words with his Kiambu counterpart regarding ongoing demolitions in the city. Mr Waititu has publicly criticised the demolitions, arguing that they had cost investors billions of shillings. Mrs Waititu's 13 co-accused included Robert Rukwaro, the contractor, who was released on a Sh100,000 cash bail.