Farmers from five sugar-growing counties are opposed to changes to the law that restrict delivery of cane to a specific miller and the requirement that they seek governors’ approval to supply cane. Farmers representatives from Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Trans-Nzoia and South Nyanza, say that if implemented in its current form, the Crops (Sugar) (General) Regulations, 2018 will leave farmers at the mercy of millers and worsen the performance of the struggling industry. In their written submissions to Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) and the Ministry of Agriculture, the farmers want the proposal that restrict farmers to supply cane to a specific miller struck out. The proposed laws were subjected to stakeholder debate. “Zoning will deny farmers opportunity to benefit from healthy competition among millers. It will restrict farmers to specific millers yet some of them either pay late or little,” said Peter Odima, chairman of Busia sugarcane farmers caucus. He said only contracted farmers should be compelled to supply to a given miller. Even so, Mr Odima added, the State should come up with laws protecting famers from non-paying millers. In addition, the farmers argue that requirement that they get authority from county governments before transporting their cane is an unnecessary red tape that may breed corruption. According to David Opala, a representative of sugarcane growers from Trans-Nzoia and Bungoma region, government should let millers match the competition in the market so as to attract cane only when they meet farmers’ price. “These proposals are a time bomb to kill the industry. They read as though being projected by sugar barons to make Kenya a total sugar importer,” he alleged. Further, the farmers’ bodies say that compelling all growers to be members of the Sugarcane Growers Apex Body, an umbrella association to be formed by government will deny them a voice and only make them incur additional costs in form of subscription fees. “Out-grower companies are bedeviled by corruption and lack clear policy on farmers’ management. Farmers are still demanding retention that has not been paid up by previous out grower institutions,” said Mr Odima. The farmers want clauses 10, 12, 13 and 34 of the proposed regulations expunged. Tuesday was the last day for sending comments to the proposed changes before being presented to Parliament.