Livestock traders in Taita Taveta are protesting the ongoing operation to flush out illegal herders from ranches. The multi-agency operation, which started at Taita ranch, targets to flush out more than 10,000 livestock from the ranch. However, the traders said the operation was illegal and was hurting their legitimate business. Speaking at Mackinnon Road town, Mr Abdile Dualle, a livestock trader, said he had paid the ranch Sh1 million to graze his cows. An agreement seen by the Business Daily showed that the agreement was to run for five years upon depositing the said amount of money. “As you see the bank slips I deposited the money on January 2, 2018. My lease was to expire in January 2023,” he said. He termed the exercise as illegal since he had paid to keep his 800 cows in the ranch. READ: Camel invasion alarms Taita-Taveta residents Losses Mr Dualle said his cows had been flushed out illegally and vowed to seek legal help to recover the losses he had incurred due to the operation. He said he had lost 270 cows that were to be exported to Mauritius for beef. The trader said he had incurred a loss of over Sh18 million. “Apart from the lost cows some were injured. This is very unfair,” he said. He said he had received eviction orders and sought to know why he was being evicted but the ranch’s management could not give him the reasons behind his eviction. “They must pay the damages they have caused. They also vandalised my bomas and took personal stuff belonging to my herders,” he said. Samson Mutinda, another trader, said their business had been affected by the exercise. He said they could not be able to export the required number of cows because some were lost during the operation. “We have been informed that they want to keep their livestock in the ranch that is why they are evicting us,” he said. 80 officers More than 80 police officers conducted the operation, leading the livestock to Mackinnon Road town. The hundreds of cows were deserted along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. Acting County Commissioner Francis Kazungu said the livestock were illegally in the ranch. He said the security team will continue with the operation until all the illegal livestock were removed from the ranches. “Ranchers have been complaining of these invasions so we came in to ensure that they are flushed out,” he said. He said some of the illegal livestock end up spilling to Tsavo National Park and the community. The exercise involved the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), administration and regular police.