Senior Kenya Medical Supply Authority (Kemsa) officials used fake documents to award a contract that exposed the agency to possible loss of Sh840 million, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has said. Details of the alleged fraud have been laid bare in court where Harry & Stan Company Limited, one of the firms involved in the contract, has gone for orders seeking to stop the probe. The DCI commenced investigations into the procurement after one of the bidders, Sai Cargo Masters Limited, complained of irregularities. The DCI says it has unearthed a possible fraud and collusion, offering a glimpse into how government officials bend procurement rules to siphon taxpayers’ money. The multimillion transport tender was initiated in 2016 and finalised in 2017. The bidders were required to provide at least three current customer referrals within the preceding three years where they had made Sh20 million annual revenue or carried out a transportation project of similar value. The DCI says Harry and Stan breached the requirement when it submitted its own sister companies as referees. The Kemsa tender committee is accused of failing to conduct due diligence to verify the validity of the documents submitted. “It is our finding that there was substantial non-compliance on the part of the petitioner and that the procurement entity failed to find that the tender bidder, the petitioner herein in this case, was ineligible for submitting false, inaccurate or incomplete information about its qualification,” the DCI says in court documents. The transport tender was awarded to BM Logistics at a cost of Sh39.8 million, while Harry and Stan won the tender to provide transport services in Central Kenya at a cost of Sh17.8 million. E Logistics, another bidder, won the tender for the supply to the Eastern region at a cost of Sh12.5 million. Together, the three tenders cost Kemsa Sh70.2 million quarterly. It would run for three years at a total cost of Sh842 milliion. The DCI says investigations had established that Harry & Stan and the two referees it submitted as its clients are owned by the same person -- Harrison Mwiti M’Kiambati -- meaning he was a bidder and his own referee. The two companies have been named as New Generation Investment and Kam Inlets. The DCI says it wrote to the two companies asking them to provide details of their contractual relationship but the two firms declined to make the disclosure, insisting that the information is confidential. It was thereafter that Harry & Stan moved to court for orders stopping the investigations. The offence is contrary to Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2005 that prohibits parties in a tender process from being involved in corrupt, coercive, obstructive, collusive or fraudulent practices. The DCI says it has established fraud and wants the court to allow it to take actions against the suspects. At the centre of the row is the provision of transport services for Kemsa. The agency has divided the country into three sections Eastern, Western and Central for purposes of executing the mandate. The tender has been marred by controversy since inception, leading to its cancellation. The whistleblower and owner of Sai Cargo Masters Limited, Benson Gichuki, says that sometime in August 2016, BM Logistics Limited was found to have quoted Sh26 million for Western region when the tenders were opened but only for Kemsa to award it the job for Sh35.8 million in September 2016. Mr Gichuki says he alerted the anti-corruption commission and copied the letter to Kemsa CEO, leading to cancellation of the award. A fresh tendering commenced but no punitive action was taken against the Kemsa officials for attempted fraud and BM Logistics, the company at the centre of it, which was allowed to participate in the subsequent process and even won it. Mr Gichuki further claims that BM Logistics provided WFP and Kenya Seed Company as its referees, which he says he has proved to be false. READ: City Hall, Narok top Sh2.3bn Kemsa drugs debt list Kemsa gets new CEO Kemsa denies responsibility for expired drugs