The rising invasion of herds of camels to Tsavo National Park, ranches and community land in Taita-Taveta County has caused tension in the area. The herders mainly from northern Kenya are searching for water and pasture for their livestock due to drought in their homeland. Political leaders and residents are alarmed by the brewing conflict between the herders and locals over the scarce resource. Residents said the herders were a security risk because some were armed with firearms. Speaking at Mariwenyi area in Mwatate Sub-County, the residents protested at the invasion saying the camels were destroying their farms and vegetation. They said herders were grazing livestock on their land without consent. “We are scared, we cannot go on with our day to day business as usual,” said a resident, Rose Kididi. Drying up Ms Kididi said their only source of water, River Mwagodi, was drying up as the hundreds of camels streamed the river to drink water. “We are forced to share the water with the camels. It has become very dirty because they urinate in the water. “We fear that soon there will be a disease outbreak,” she said. The Mariwenyi villagers now fear that the herders might turn against women as some were reportedly harassing them. They said going to fetch water and firewood was a risk. “One day they followed me and asked if I am married. We also fear that they might prey at our young girls,” said another villager Diana Mghoi. Ms Mghoi asked security agencies in the area to intensify patrols as they plan to remove the animals from the community. Ms Mghoi said efforts of getting the camels out of their area were futile due to hostility of the herders. They said the camels were not sparing anything on their farms making the food situation worse. “We depend on our farms for food. Our land is now bare, if we’re not careful this area will become a desert,” she said. Suffering She added that they were planning to demonstrate to the government concerning the menace. Member of County Assembly Christopher Mwambingu said residents were suffering in the hands of the herders. He said the community will take action if the concerned stakeholders fail to remove the camels from the resident’s private farms. “The county departments in charge of Livestock should impound the roaming camels and take action on herders found grazing on people’s farms,” he said. County executive for Agriculture and Livestock Dr Davis Mwangoma said all illegal grazers will be arrested and charged. He said together with security agencies in the county, they were planning an operation to flush out thousands of livestock from the area. “Some of the herders entered into agreements with ranch owners but end up bringing more livestock. The livestock spill to other ranches, community land and even the park,” he said. Met with resistance In 2013, efforts by the government to flush out the livestock were met with resistance as some of the herders rushed to the court to block the operation. The owners had claimed that they had entered into legal agreements with ranch owners with some claiming to have paid millions of money to the ranchers. Ranchers Association chairperson Mcharo Bong’osa has been calling on the government to flush out the livestock from the area. Mr Bong’osa said the foreign livestock were a threat to the ecosystem of the park and the ranches. He said most of the grazers do not have any agreement with ranchers to allow them graze their livestock in the ranches. “They (grazers) come with thousands of livestock without any agreement. Some of these livestock therefore spill into our ranches and some to the national park,” he said.