Police officers have recovered stolen goods estimated to be worth more than Sh2 million in Kitengela. The goods were seized on Thursday following a major crackdown in the busy town on the outskirts of Nairobi. Officers from the Kitengela Police Station raided a major second-hand dealer shop at New Valley on the fringes of the town, after a tipoff from the public. They recovered stolen electronics, household equipment, hardware items, gas cylinders, electric cables, computers and other assorted items. The shop owner managed to escape and the police are on the lookout for him. The owner is said to be conniving with a gang that has recently been terrorising residents. Kitengela is among the fastest growing town in the region, attracting local and national investors but the high level of insecurity has lately become a big concern. In a fortnight, 10 business premises has been broken into and property estimated at Sh5 million in value stolen.Raised alarmTraders have raised the alarm over the armed burglars who have been breaking into shops, hardware and electronic shops almost daily to steal goods. Two people are reported have been killed by the gang. "We operate in much fear from this gun-toting gang breaking into our business in the most cavalier manner. My electronic shop has been broken into twice in a month coasting me more than Sh500,000,’’ said John Munge, an electronics trader.After looting shops, hotels and homes in the night, the gang is said to be selling the merchandise to the New Valley shop in this shop at a reduced price. Also targeted are major restaurants in the town, with one losing ten 32-inch TVs valued at Sh300,000.High alert Newly posted Isinya police boss Kinyua Mugambi say officers are on high alert within the town and in neighbouring areas to deal with the surging insecurity and to protect traders.“We would like to assures traders in Kitengela not to panic as we are following crucial leads to arrest the suspects’’ said Mr Mugambi.He called on the public to come forward to identify the recovered properties.