Girls as young as 12 are engaging in risky sexual behaviour that puts them at the risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections (STIs). According to a study conducted in two poor urban settings in Nairobi by various researchers, many young girls are not aware of their HIV status yet they engage in high risk sexual behaviour. The research, published in Open Access Journal, PLOS ONE, says pervasive poverty, fragmented social networks, and limited access to social services are the biggest contributors to HIV risks among adolescent girls and young women aged between 15 and 24. The study, which assessed sexual risk behaviour among girls in Korogocho and Viwandani slums of Nairobi, shows that early sexual encounters continue to rise. Early sexual activities increase the period of time adolescents are exposed to the risk of sexually transmitted infections or unintended pregnancy. The data correlates with the National Aids Control Council (NACC) statistics which show that the number of new infections among young adults aged between 15 and 24 years dropped in 2017 with the age bracket contributing to two in every five new infections. In 2017, this age group contributed to 43 per cent of new infections with 26,000 cases reported while 3,300 died of HIV/Aids related deaths. The data revealed that of the 578 girls who were sexually active in the 12 months preceding the survey, 20 per cent were aged between 15 and 19 while the highest proportion was among the 20 to 23 age group. Just over half of the young women, 52 per cent, reported that they had been tested for HIV and received results with the proportion varying from 14.6 per cent among those younger than 15 years to 82 per cent among those aged 20 to 23 years. READ: Uproar over plan to cut age of consensual sex from 18 to 16 Condoms posed a challenge for the girls with 30 per cent saying they use the device and only 23 per cent of those aged 20 to 23 used them. Girls aged 12 to 14 years did not use condoms at all. Majority of the girls who took part in the survey, 55 per cent, had a less than five-year age difference between them and the last sexual partner. Another 35.5 per cent had sexual partners with an age difference of five to nine years. At the same time, one in every 20 of the girls who had ever had sex reported that they had more than one sexual partner in the 12 months preceding the survey. Kenya has the largest number of people living with HIV/Aids after South Africa at 1.5 million, with an estimated 35,800 deaths due to the disease annually. The report comes at a time when the country is doing a Kenya Population-based HIV Impact Assessment (KENPHIA) involving 36,000 randomly selected individuals across the 47 counties. The survey is aimed at providing data that will inform programmes and resourcing for people most in need and will cost Sh2 billion. Blood samples will be collected to determine HIV status and to screen for syphilis and hepatitis B.