The Sh5.8 billion Likoni cable car project in Mombasa could be delayed despite the Cabinet approving it last week. Kenya Ferry Services managing director Bakari Gowa had said the groundbreaking would happen this month and was only awaiting Cabinet nod. Besides the project money being available, Mr Gowa had also said that pre-engineering work -- involving physical survey of the sites where the landing stations and the mast would be built on the two sides of the Likoni Channel --- had been done. But on Monday, Trapos Limited, which is handling the Private Public Partnership (PPP) project, said the actual groundbreaking is set for next year. “We are now going to start the environmental assessment and do the sub-ground tests which will run simultaneously with the process of finalising the engineering design of the project,” said Trapos chairman Eustace Mwarania. Dr Mwarania attributed the long time it took to get the Cabinet approval for the delay in starting the actual project works. “We could not spend any money as the project had not been approved by the government but now that we have been given a go ahead, the process will begin and allow the actual works to begin early next year,” added Dr Mwarania. Signing of the concession Dr Mwarania said the signing of the project concession is yet to be done. “The signing process will involve the general concession and also with Doppelmayr Group after which the first quarter will begin next year. We are happy that the government approved the project and we can’t wait to see our dream realised,” he said. The Doppelmayr Group is a manufacturer of ropeways, cable cars and ski lifts and will transfer the technology and operate the system with Likoni Cable Express Limited across the busy Likoni Channel. The Cabinet last week approved plans to develop the cable car system, which is expected to ease traffic congestion on the channel. Its completion is expected to take two years with about 500 locals getting jobs. Last Friday, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the government will be the biggest beneficiary of the project. He said although it is being undertaken through the private partnership, its value will stand at Sh20 billion at the end of the concession period. Cost has increased Dr Mwarania on Monday noted that the project cost is Sh5.8 billion, saying the Sh4.1 billion now approved by government was from a proposal made two years ago. Physical survey of the sites where the landing stations and the mast will be built on the two sides of the channel is yet to be done. The landing station will be built over the road and all cable cars will come under the landing station. The cars will work for seven days of the week, crossing the channel in less than three minutes. The express link will have 22 cable cars, which will carry 38 passengers per cabin. It will carry 11,000 commuters per hour in both directions which will be a total of 180,000 people a day. Currently, at least 300,000 people and 6,000 vehicles use the channel daily. The commuters are using four ferries MV Jambo, MV Likoni, MV Harambee, MV Nyayo and MV Kwale to cross the channel.