More than a year after the lifting of the ban on night fishing in Lamu, fisherfolk say they still cannot go out to sea at night. The ban, which had been imposed as a result of increased Shabaab terror attacks, effectively remains in place, they say. Fishermen interviewed by the Business Daily in Kiunga, Ishakani, Madina, Mkokoni and Kiwayu in Lamu East Sub-County say they are always arrested, molested and harassed by security agencies whenever they try venturing out to the sea at night. In May 2017, the national government announced that fishermen were now free to resume their usual activities in the Indian Ocean even at night. Officials said the government would then increase the number of security officers on patrol in the ocean on a 24-hour basis. READ: Displaced Lamu fishermen reject payment in kind READ: Court orders State to pay Lamu fishermen Sh1.7bn over Lapsset READ: Terrorism is bleeding Lamu tourism to death, say firms Short-changed However, the fishermen now feel short-changed. Security officers continue to warn them to stay out of the Indian Ocean waters at night, despite the lifting of the ban. The ban has been in place for nearly eight years, having been imposed on 2011. About 90 per cent of locals in Lamu East Sub-County depend directly on fishing for survival. The ban has definitely left many reeling in poverty. Mr Mohamed Bahero, a fisherman from Kiunga -- a village close to the Lamu-Somalia border -- says the ban is responsible for the dwindling fishing sector. Mr Bahero said locals, many of whom are dependent on fishing, are wallowing in poverty since they cannot catch much fish during the day. The fisherman wonders if there was any point in lifting the ban yet security officers round them up and harass them whenever they venture out. “The government says it has lifted the ban yet we can’t still go out fishing at night. Security officers don’t want to hear anything we say.   'Not aware' "They arrest us and tell us they aren’t aware of the ban being lifted. They tell us we are trespassing and committing offence fishing at night. "Basically, there is no night fishing and we want to know why yet the ban was supposedly lifted,” said Mr Bahero. The fishermen say most fish are easily caught at night when they can see less as opposed to daytime. “Fishing in the afternoon is triple the effort you make when you do it at night. When there is light, there is not much catch as the fish keep migrating further and further away but at night, things are easier and more fulfilling. As it is right now, fishing is doing so badly. The government needs to look into this matter and help us,” he added. Mr Ahmed Islam, another fisherman from the border village of Ishakani says many do not understand why they cannot be allowed to fish at night. Mr Islam says fishermen trying to work at night are arrested and treated like suspected Al-Shabaab terrorists. “There has been no change since the announcement for the lifting was made if not for the continued harassment of fishermen who attempt to heed the directive. "They find you; they arrest you on suspicion of terrorism. We can’t go on like this. We need to understand which ban was lifted and which one is still on,” said Mr Islam. Mvuvi cards Mohamed Shali says even with the recently launched Mvuvi Cards -- which are apparently supposed to help track all their movements and activities while at sea -- they are still prohibited from fishing at night. The Mvuvi Card was launched early this year and was expected to identify all fishermen in the affected areas. The card would also be used used as a permit to allow them carry on with fishing at any given time. Mr Shali, however, says that is not the case, as they are still frustrated by security officers. He accuses the officers of delaying them unnecessarily, forcing them to arrive late for fishing by which time they end up with nothing. “We were told with the cards we could fish anytime we liked. It was a lie." "Even when we go fishing during the day, they come up with all manner of excuses to keep us waiting and by the time we get to the fishing zones, it is already night and we have to pack out, mostly without anything,” said Mr Shali.   Mind games Lamu Fishermen Association chair Mohamed Somo now accuses the government of playing mind games. He claims lifting the fishing ban was just for show, when the government actually had no plan of doing so. “It means the night fishing ban was only lifted for the cameras but in really sense, it still exists. I have been receiving complaints from fishermen on the same almost on a daily basis and it’s not right,” said Mr Somo. Contacted, Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri who is also the director of the Linda Boni Security operation insisted the night fishing ban has been lifted. He said the number of security officers patrolling the Indian Ocean has increased considerably The county commissioner said security department officials have been meeting with Beach Management Units (BMUs) in affected villages over the issue. Mr Kanyiri said the department was liaising with various partners to issue the Mvuvi Card to ease fishing matters. He called on fishermen to comply with anything they are required to to make it easier for them to be allowed to fish at night. “It’s true. The ban was lifted and remains so. The only thing is that there are certain conditions fishermen need to meet before being allowed to go fishing at night. "I suspect those complaining are among the lot that have refused to adhere to this. Security of this region is paramount and people must learn to comply with all directives in that line. "They should also understand that there have to be 24/7 security patrols in the border areas,” said Mr Kanyiri.  