The government has given officials of 15 group ranches and six state officials who facilitated the fraudulent acquisition of sections of the Mau Forest Complex one week to present themselves to the Narok County Criminal Investigations Directorate and record statements. County commissioner George Natembeya, who spoke yesterday in his office, said the group ranch officials liaised with five surveyors and three land registrars to expand the ranches deep into the forest. This comes as the government said it had also obtained names of prominent people who illegally sold huge chunks of land excised from the Mau Forest Complex, to unsuspecting people. The big shots are now targeted as the government sets the stage for the second phase of the evictions. The administrator revealed that the adjudication of group ranches, which took place in 1999, led to the extension of boundaries, culminating in a 17,101 hectares in excess. “I hereby direct officials of Enoosokon, Reiyo, Nkaroni, Sisisyian and Enekishomi to avail themselves at the County CID offices Narok and record statements on what transpired,”said Mr Natembeya. Those named are registered surveyors. They are Jackton Mogaka, George Gaya, Silas Muketha, Francis Kipng’etich and Joseph Mukhole. They are accused of subdividing the group ranches and extending them into the forest. The last two are deceased. Others on the government wanted list are three land registrars — John Chepkirui, A.S Bamosa and Joseph Onyambu, who issued title deeds which have been declared null and void by government. The group ranch officials who face arrest and prosecution include chairpersons, treasurers and secretaries. The named group ranch officials are Napatau Ole Kana and Rukuti Ole Konata (Sayan Group Ranch). Sanja Ole Sankei, another official, has already recorded a statement. Others named by the county commissioner as wanted are Sampele Ole Maleto, Fredrick Cheres and Benson Kori who were officials of Reiyo group ranch. Others are Oloosuya Ole Tiyo, Juma Ole Kimanyim and Lemein Ole Kiputa (Enoosokon group ranch); David Lekuta Ole Sulunye, Stanley Naiyeya Sirma and William Ole Sirma who are former Enekishomi group ranch officials. At the Nkaroni group ranch, Johnson Kipketer, Mr Joseph Kimeto Mapetu and Wilfred Kipkorir Langat are also on the list. The ministry of lands says 1,089 people who originally got land within the forest, excised the parcels and later sold or transferred them. “We now have all the names of those who sold land to unsuspecting people who are now victims of evictions. Soon those culpable will be arrested and prosecuted,” said Mr Natembeya. At the close of last month, the government had secured about 12,000 hectares of the forest, ejected 7,082 people and demolished over 1,700 temporary structures in the 46,000 hectare forest. He said the prominent individuals took advantage of the group ranches to encroach into the forest, by hiving big chunks from the forest which they later sold to willing buyers, most of them from outside Narok County. Last week the Environment and Lands Court sitting in Narok declined to issue orders to stop phase two of the evictions in a case filed by Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony and a group of illegal settlers.