Atul Gawande’s book, The Checklist Manifesto, is a must read for anyone who runs a business that undertakes repetitive processes from airlines to restaurants to manufacturing concerns to hospitals. In the book, he gives an example of how a basic checklist saved a hospital millions of dollars in costs and saved multiple lives. In 2001, a critical care specialist at Johns Hopkins Hospital called Peter Pronovost decided to give a doctor checklist a try. It was designed to tackle just one of their hundreds of potential tasks that killed surgical patients: central line infections. On a sheet of paper, he plotted out steps to be taken to avoid infections when putting in a central line. Doctors are supposed to (1) wash their hands with soap, (2) clean the patient’s skin with chlorhexidine antiseptic, (3) put sterile drapes over the entire patient, (4) wear a mask, hat, sterile gown and gloves, and (5) put a sterile dressing over the insertion site once the line is in. Dr Gawande writes that it seemed silly to make a checklist for something so obvious but Pronovost asked nurses to observe the doctors for a month as they put lines in patients and record how often they carried out each step. In more than a third of the patients, the doctors skipped at least one step. Pronovost then convinced the John Hopkins Hospital administration to authorise nurses to stop doctors if they saw them skipping a step on the checklist. If doctors didn’t follow every step, the nurses would have backup from the administration to intervene. For a year afterward, Pronovost and his colleagues monitored the outcomes. The ten-day line infection rate went from 11 per cent to zero. The checklist had prevented 43 infections and eight deaths and had saved two million dollars in costs. You’d have to read the rest of the book to see the rest of the Pronovost’s successes following this startling discovery, but one of the most noteworthy was the Keystone Initiative. The initiative was rolled out in public hospitals in the US state of Michigan. Within the first three months of the project the central line infection rate in Michigan’s Intensive Care Units (ICUs) decreased by 66 per cent. Most ICUs cut their quarterly infection rate to zero. Michigan’s infection rates fell so low that its average ICU outperformed 90 per cent of ICUs nationwide. The hospitals saved $175 million in costs and more than 1,500 lives. All because of a checklist. READ: Lilly Koros: Mixed fortunes for suspended hospital boss A few weeks ago, we had an unfortunate mix-up at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) operating theatre and the wrong patient was operated on for a fairly sensitive and complex brain surgery. The episode led to the health Minister ordering the suspension of the hospital’s CEO Lily Koros and the whole kit and caboodle of Kenyan parastatal drama resulted, including indignant MPs, tribal politics, corruption cartels and who knows what else. The key issue of operational risks (no pun intended) that the hospital’s administration needs to address has now been put on the back burner as folks try to establish if a certain tribe is being targeted for administrative incompetence. The indignant MPs are right on one issue: a non-medical hospital administrator wouldn’t know the first thing about what should happen in the pre-operative and post-operative processes for patients. However, they forget one thing: the buck stops at the hospital CEO’s desk. A CEO is not there for ensuring profits are made and employees are happy. The role of any CEO whether she be in the airline, banking, hotel, horticulture or manufacturing industry is to ensure that the mutually dependent aspects of process, people, product and profit are managed effectively. The CEO may not know the technical details but must ensure that not only the right people are overseeing the same, but that those people are in control. Control includes being aware of what risks appertain to that aspect and ensuring that such risks are being mitigated. Risk management is not just the risk manager’s job, it is an enterprise-wide initiative that must be tracked from board level down to the shop floor. Mistakes happen anywhere and everywhere. It’s what we learn from them, and execute diligently thereafter, that make organisations great. The patient swap might have been prevented by a very basic pre-surgical checklist. KNH board and management should not waste this crisis. Once the unnecessary political sideshows die down, the board needs to address a vigorous and critical responsibility of any board: what operational risks are we running in this hospital and how are they being mitigated?