Parliament has rejected regulations approved by Transport secretary James Macharia last December, shielding motorists from higher vehicle inspection fees. The National Assembly’s committee on Delegated Legislation threw out the regulations that would have reviewed the commercial vehicle inspection fees upwards for the first time in 22 years. Currently, the prescribed fee is Sh1,000 for all categories of vehicles regardless of class, size and type. The annulled rules would have seen owners of the two-wheeler motorcycles commonly known as boda bodas pay Sh1,300 for inspection. Owners of three-wheelers and vehicles with engine capacities of up to 3,000cc were required to pay Sh2,600. The Gazette notice No.299 also imposed a Sh3,900 charge for vehicles with engine capacities of over 3,000cc. Owners of trailers weighing up to five tonnes were to pay Sh2,000 while those exceeding the weight would have paid Sh4,600. “The committee recommends that the Traffic (Amendment) (No.3) Rules, 2017 be annulled for ambiguity, lack of clarity and insufficient public participation,” Gladys Shollei, the chairperson of the Committee on Delegated Legislation said in a report to the House. READ: Reprieve for driving schools, drivers as court suspends NTSA vetting ALSO READ: Omtatah takes NTSA to court over driving school rules Significant costs Ms Shollei said the regulations were likely to impose significant cost on the community and a regulatory impact statement was not prepared pursuant to section 6 of the Statutory Instruments Act. “Annexed to the rules was an explanatory memorandum prepared by the National Transport Safety Authority (NTSA), which the committee noted did not meet the requirements of the schedule of the Statutory Instruments Act on public participation,” the report, tabled in Parliament on Tuesday states. The schedule of the Act stipulates that the memorandum on any statutory instrument should contain a brief explanation of who was consulted, over what period and what were the responses. “The schedule further adds that there ought to be some analysis of the outcome and department’s policy response to the opinion expressed. "This includes the percentage of those who supported the proposal and the main objections on the proposal,” said Ms Shollei. The committee said the NTSA and the Transport ministry had agreed to a proposal to phase the proposed vehicle inspection fees over a period of three years. “The rules lack clarity and are ambiguous,” the committee said in the report.