Transport and Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia has appointed Mr Luke Kipchumba Kimeli as the acting director general of the Kenya Rural Roads Authority. The appointment follows the nomination of the current director, Mr John Ogango, for the position of ambassador by President Uhuru Kenyatta. In a letter seen by Sunday Nation and addressed to the authority’s chairperson, Ms Rose Githua, Mr Macharia said the appointment comes pending the recruitment of a substantive office holder by the Authority’s board. “I hereby appoint Mr Luke Kipchumba Kimeli as the acting director general of the authority in accordance with the Kenya Roads Act,” said the CS. “In view of the above, I direct the board to urgently commence competitive recruitment for the director general position.” Mr Kimeli’s name was among three that were forwarded to the CS for approval. The other two were Peter Patu Gichohi and Jackson Karubiu Magondu. The agency coordinates the development, rehabilitation, maintenance and management of rural roads. It also controls reserves for rural roads and access to roadside developments. The appointment comes barely a week after the cabinet secretary reshuffled 14 out of 16 heads of department at the Port of Mombasa as the government seeks to ensure its directive for imported cargo to be ferried through the railway succeeds. In the shake-up that caught many people unawares, including port workers and top management, Mr Macharia sent a strong warning to cartels sabotaging the Sh327 billion Mombasa-Nairobi railway that was launched in fanfare in 2017. He said the changes would make the port more efficient and in sync with the Standard Gauge Railways. He asked hauliers not to be worried about loss of business when cargo is transported through the SGR. About 28 million tonnes of cargo arrive through the port. The CS also redeployed heads of departments to different sections, saying the changes were guided by performance and governance. The government had earlier announced that six cargo trains would be leaving the port for the ICD daily beginning end of June.