Work has started on four additional footbridges on Thika Road at a cost of Sh820 million, adding to the existing 18 to enhance safety of pedestrians when speed bumps are removed. The Kenya National Highway Authority (Kenha) director-general Peter Mundinia said the agency has awarded the contract to Interways Works Limited and Fourways Construction Limited. The footbridges are being erected at Survey of Kenya just before the junction to Kenya School of Monetary Studies (KSMS), Garden Estate Junction, Witeithie and Mang’u areas on the busy highway. “Interways Works Limited are constructing Witeithie and Mangu footbridges at a cost of Sh430 million while  Fourway Construction Limited are constructing  KSMS and Garden City footbridges at a cost of Sh390 million,” said Mr Mundinia. He said Kenha will in December remove safety bumps installed on the highway once the footbridges are complete in the quest for safety. Last year, the High Court ordered removal of speed bumps on the highway to ease traffic. The court order targeted bumps at Survey of Kenya, Homeland and Breweries after Nairobi governor Mike Sonko sued the county government in 2015 while he served as Senator. READ: New speed limit signs for Thika highway The highway agency has also started installation of speed limits and signage along the superhighway in a bid to reduce accidents and promote safety of motorists and pedestrians. Erection of speed limits and other directional signs will cover the section from Museum Hill interchange to Thika. “The new signage will replace previous ones either vandalised or knocked down by motorists. The new signage are part of our efforts to reduce accidents along the busy superhighway, and to promote safety of both motorists and pedestrians,” said Mr Mundinia said. Motorists face fines of up to Sh10,000 should they exceed speed limits on traffic signs. The highway was expanded at a cost of Sh31 billion, an improvement that improved traffic flow but also attracted users from other roads as motorists avoid jam, especially in the morning and evening.