There is rigorous exercises, then there is Tabata. Same thing but Tabata is ultra-intense with most of the workouts lasting only four minutes. Originally from Japan, this high-intensity interval training (HIIT) workout, incorporates pretty much all kinds of exercises. And it is picking up fast in Kenyan especially for people who want to lose weight fast and stay fit permanently. But do not be fooled, the four minutes might very well turn out to be the longest you have ever endured. A Tabata workout alternates push-ups, body weight squat, burpees and mountain climbers; all done in four minutes each. At each station, a participant works out for 20 seconds, then rests 10 seconds before resuming the exercise. For instance, at the push-up station, perform 20 seconds at a high-intensity, rest 10 seconds then go back to doing push-ups for 20 seconds. 30 to 45 minutesOnce you complete eight sets of push-ups, rest for one minute, before proceeding to the next station which could be squats or jumping jacks. Repeat the sequence until you have covered all workouts you had set out to do. Though Tabata intervals are short, they place intense pressure on the body as one continues performing the exercises. This makes it ideal for people who want to burn calories and ultimately lose weight. “The beauty with Tabata is that you continue burning calories even after you are done with the workout,” says Victor Abwanzo, the healthcare manager at All Saints Gym in Nairobi. By definition, Tabata only requires one exercise, but you can cobble together a workout routine from a huge array of strength and aerobic exercises. Mr Abwanzo says that most people appreciate the need to keep fit but the usual excuse is lack of time. “With Tabata, you can start with just four minutes per day. This means that excuse of not having enough time to exercise has run dry,” he says. Depending on a person’s fitness levels, a Tabata session could last between 30 minutes to 45 minutes. These exercises improve the overall cardiovascular fitness performance. Anaerobic (without oxygen) exercises cause you to be quickly out of breath. They include sprinting, spinning, kickboxing or lifting a heavy weight. In Tabata, the short rest periods at only half the time of the high impact intervals compels the body to perform without a full recovery. As this goes on, the body increases the rate at which it uses energy while at rest to keep vital functions strong. Mr Abwanzo insists on the importance of a physical medical examination before starting Tabata to avoid injury. The health screening usually conducted by a physician would involve filling up of a form that covers basic information about your health history. You will be required to give basic information about your age, sex, occupation as well as your fitness history, health risk factors, and medications. The screening will cover recent injuries, illnesses, and family medical history. This will be followed by a series of tests to check your health status. It is these findings that are presented to your fitness trainer. ligadwah@ke.nationmedia.com