Receivers of troubled insurance company, United, will start paying the Sh1.2 billion claims that have been pending for more than a decade after shareholders and the regulator agreed on a settlement plan. The claims have remained unpaid since July 2005, when the Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA) took the company into statutory management and froze payments of claims. Payments are expected to begin once the court approves a joint settlement proposal that has been submitted in court. The proposed settlement has been signed by three shareholders of United Insurance and Policyholders Compensation Fund, which is the statutory manager. Signing of the proposal was witnessed by acting Commissioner of Insurance and IRA’s chief executive officer. The settlement includes plans to revive the insurer, which if successful will make it the second underwriter to come out of statutory management, the first having been Invesco Insurance Company. “I seek leave of this court to have the statutory manager implement the joint proposal dated November 6, 2017,” lawyer Benson Milimo who represents the statutory manager requested the court when the parties appeared last Thursday. But shareholders requested for time to be allowed to engage the statutory manager with a view to getting a representation in the committee that will oversee the settlement of the claims. Justice Fred Ochieng directed the parties to appear before him this morning for directions regarding composition of the team that will oversee settlement. “All claimants are to be considered and allowed to get their claims verified. To facilitate this, a portion of the company assets valued at Sh4 billion are to be liquidated and the proceeds used to settle these liabilities in full,” the report says. The shareholders, who have agreed to the proposal are Kiki Investments, Mumbu Holdings and Kiragu Holdings each with a 33.33 per cent stake. IRA first appointed Kenya Reinsurance Corp as United’s statutory manager. Kenya-Re was in October 2014 replaced by Evanson Waruhiu before Policy Holders Compensation Fund took over in June 2015. For the last 13 years, there has been a fair share of drama around the insurer as shareholders on one side and receivers teaming up with the regulator to pull in different directions. In 2006, just one year after it was put under receivership, a report emerged indicating that the firm was insolvent to the tune of Sh1.95 billion and recommended its winding up. Based on this report Commissioner of Insurance filed for winding up, which shareholders rejected and appealed against. The appeal is still pending but it has given the shareholders window to rescue the firm, if the current plan succeed. READ: Lawyers ask court to clip insurance regulator’s powers The proposal filed in court shows that there are established liabilities of Sh1.24 billion. These are outstanding claims from policy holders of Sh909 million, staff are owed Sh40 million, while service providers are owed Sh292 million. The report shows that verified insurance claims stand at Sh449 million while insurance claims amounting to Sh460 million have not been verified. Besides, the firm owes Sh122 million in verified legal fees besides the outstanding Sh150 million legal fees that have yet to be verified. United also has outstanding Sh1 billion deferred tax bill, which has been marked for long term consideration. Documents filed in court show that United has Sh248 million in ready cash, which translates to 19 per cent of total outstanding claims. The amount excludes Sh109 million that had been banked at Chase Bank, which is under receivership and is currently inaccessible. Once given approval, the statutory manager will start paying percentages of the claims with available cash but meanwhile the other sources have been identified to raise the whole amount. Claimants, who are not ready to accept the phased settlement, will await revival of the company.