Homeowners in Kenya are buying bullet-resistant doors to ensure security and add value to their properties. Kenyans often don’t trust the security in their compounds and are investing in armoured main doors, with some people fixing them in bedrooms. When it comes to having a secure home, the door is often the first line of defence. Besides bullet proof doors giving someone a piece of mind, they also automatically raise the value of a house, especially in a property market teeming with new luxurious homes. Also, rare solid wood items gain in value over time, including doors. And is there a demand for armoured doors in Kenya? According to Panesar Interiors, a Nairobi-based furniture maker that have been selling armoured doors from the late 1980s, there has always been a market for them. “We all know the security risks that we are prone to in Kenya, having a secure front door isn’t just for peace of mind, but it also clearly showcases the integrity of the rest of the house,” said Vir Panesar, Panesar Interiors chief operating officer. An armoured door can cost up to Sh950,000 depending on the size and design. This includes a five- point locking system, special toughened ironmongery and lots of other specifications that can help the client create a bespoke door. ‘‘We had done a bullet test on the doors. You can also have a full glass door that is bulletproof,’’ he said. Most of these doors are manufactured from solid mahogany. Mr Panesar, for instance, says for the mahogany doors, the wood is usually ethically sourced from outside Kenya from saw millers that have the best practice when it comes to hardwood. “Basically, the ironmongery comes from Germany. Everything else is locally manufactured,” said Mr Panesar. To install one, a strong foundation is required, since there is no point putting an armoured door if a house which is already failing apart. The biggest difficulty faced when installing an armoured door is its weight. So it should be fixed well to stop intruders from breaking in. It also should stand the force of storms and harsh weather at a much higher degree than a regular door. Solid wood or metal doors can stand in place of bullet proof ones if you cannot afford. But do not go for hollow-core doors which are made from cardboard surrounded by veneer. Likewise, replace windowed exterior doors (paned French doors, half-window doors) with windowless doors, and add sturdy storm doors with good locking devices. Ngunjirij@ke.nationmedia.com