Owners of residential and commercial buildings in Mombasa's Central Business District have been ordered to paint their premises with a uniform colour. In a notice issued to residents, the county administration has directed that all buildings be painted white with blue colour - which symbolises the Indian Ocean. They have been given 14 days to comply with the preparation of painting and 30 days from start of the directive to complete. “The buildings should be in white with Egyptian blue border on the edges and windows above without any sign written on the wall or canopy,” reads the notice signed by Transport, Infrastructure and Public Works executive Tawfiq Balala. The owners are also required to clean and refurbish their properties so it is is up to decency, health and safety standards. Consequences Those who fail to comply with the directive have been warned of dire consequences. “We will take those who will not comply to court. Ensure to collect compliance letter at completion by attaching photos before and after as a proof of evidence to support,” adds the letter. The directive comes two weeks after the county engaged residents in a public forum on implementation of the idea. The Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) Coast branch executive officer, Sam Ikwaye, hailed the plan saying it will be a cheapest way of beautifying the tourism hub. Last month, Governor Hassan Joho announced his administration had embarked on the plan that will see both the CBD and Old Town painted in a uniform colour. “Historically we are known of culture and heritage. We can go for either white and blue or any other but just to ensure we maintain our identity as Mombasa people,” the county boss said at the time. Lands, Planning and Housing executive, Edward Nyale, said in a previous interview that consultations were on to have Old Town painted in a unique colour. Old Town largely has historical buildings which attract thousands of local and international tourists. It is mostly inhabited by Swahilis and Arabs. The most visible aspect of its uniqueness is a collection of historical buildings dating back to the 18th century which combine African, Arabic and European architectural influences. READ: While Away the Sunset Along Mida Creek ALSO READ: Lasting charm of Mombasa Old Town