Boda boda riders Monday lost a case in which they sought to be allowed to operate within the city’s central business district. But as Justice Roselyn Aburili dismissed the case filed by Starehe MP Charles Kanyi Njagua alias Jaguar, the court accused politicians of using the riders as pawns in the game of politics. According to the judge, the politicians rally the boda boda riders to their camp only to dump them after winning the elections. “They must not pawn the riders for political gain. They must not create any legitimate expectations in the minds of the riders that they will not enforce after the election,” she said. Justice Aburili told Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to enforce the law decisively if it intends to eradicate the rot and restore the city to its former glory. Mr Njagua moved to court in January following the ban of motorcycle riders, popularly known as boda bodas, from entering the CBD. The Starehe MP argued that the decision was reached without consulting the relevant stakeholders. According to first-term MP, the move was ill-informed, and made based on irrelevant considerations. READ: Nairobi boda boda operators to register with new body He argued that the ban may result in more harm than good as the operators will be left frustrated and without a source of income, and which might force them to engage in criminal activities. He also argued that the ban is curtailing the economic rights of many riders who rely on ferrying passengers to and from the CBD. But the Judge faulted the MP, saying he has filed a similar case to another which was dismissed in 2016. “The same person of interest cannot be left to oscillate around the courts in different colours of rights where today they sue as a sacco, tomorrow as a welfare association, and a day after as an MP, trying to protect their interest,” she said. The Judge faulted the county government, saying it has abdicated its mandate and had failed to enforce the law and has let the city to “rot in filth”. She added that although the application is well intended, it is unfortunately, an abuse of court process. The Court further said that Mr Njagua failed to show how the riders’ rights were violated by removing them out of the CBD.