The Teachers Service Commission has defended its decision to remove nominated MP and union leader Wilson Sossion from its roll. While responding to a case in which the Kenya National Union of Teachers’ secretary -general has sued the TSC, the commission claimed that it followed due process. Through human resource director Josephine Mueni Maundu, the TSC accused Mr Sossion of failing to resign after his nomination as MP last year. According to the TSC, Mr Sossion unlawfully continued to hold office as a public officer yet he had assumed office as a legislator contrary to provisions of the Public Officer Ethics Act, the Leadership and Integrity Act, and the Elections Act, among other laws. “Consequent to holding two conflicting public offices, he was engaged in two positions of gainful employment from the same government contrary to provisions of section 26 of the Leadership and Integrity Act,” said Ms Maundu. Mr Sossion was first employed by the TSC in 1993 on permanent and pensionable terms having qualified as a teacher from Egerton University with a Diploma in Agricultural Education and Extension. He was posted to Koibarak Secondary School an Agriculture and Biology teacher. He joined KNUT in 1996 and was first elected an executive secretary for the Bomet branch in 2001. READ: Knut seeks Labour ministry help in teacher transfers row At the time, he requested TSC to grant him leave of absence, a request which was granted and extended when he was re-elected in 2006 before being elected as Chairman and Secretary General of KNUT. In filed case documents, TSC said that his leave of absence has always been extended but the commission deemed it fit to terminate his service owing to his own admission that he had accepted the nominated position. “It is apparent that the termination process subjected to him was within the confines of law, principles of natural justice and public interest and that the administrative and process applied is fair, procedural and lawful,” said Ms Maundu. The vocal teachers’ union leader challenged his termination from the teaching service last month was unprocedural.