A Chinese engineering company has been ordered to pay a lawyer it had employed as a legal officer Sh1 million for unfair termination of her employment. Justice Linnet Ndolo of the Employment and Labour Relations Court said the termination of Ms Winnie Mghoi's employment by the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (Kenya) Ltd was substantively and procedurally unfair hence she was entitled to compensation. “I award the claimant six months’ salary in compensation, I have taken into account the respondent’s conduct, which effectively forced the claimant out of employment prematurely,” said Justice Ndolo. Justice Ndolo said the court found that the clause on probation had been unprocedurally introduced in her employment contract. The judge awarded Ms Mghoi six months’ salary in compensation at Sh828,000, one month’s salary in lieu of notice Sh138,000 and house allowance for four months Sh72,000. Pregnancy However, the judge did not award Ms Mghoi damages for termination of employment on account of pregnancy. “The court did not find any nexus between her pregnancy and the termination, the claim for damages on this ground therefore fails and is dismissed,” said Justice Ndolo in her judgment. According to Ms Mghoi, by a letter dated February 26, 2016, the engineering company offered her employment as a legal officer which she accepted and commenced work immediately. She told the court that she was issued with a job card showing that her employment would run from February 26, 2016 until the following year same date and month. The court heard that after being issued with a job card, the company’s management learnt that she was pregnant, became indifferent towards her and started looking for ways to terminate her employment. The claimant argued that sometime in June 2016, the respondent issued her with a draft employment contract which provided for a four months’ probation period which she contends was contrary to the normal three months’ probation period given to the company’s employees. Protested She protested at the turn of events upon which her employment was terminated on grounds that she had refused to sign her contract of employment, the court was further told. Ms Mghoi argued that the real reason for the termination of her employment was her pregnancy. In its response, the company, which admitted having employed Ms Mghoi, said she was given a four-month’ probation period. China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (Kenya) Ltd argued that Ms Mghoi was to accept the terms of the contract of employment before expiry of the probation period. The company stated that in spite of the claimant having drafted the employment contract and the probation period having been within the law, she decided to reject the probation period as a result of which her contract was terminated during the probation period. It denied Ms Mghoi’s claim that her termination was as a result of her pregnancy and states that it was not aware that she was pregnant. In her judgement, Justice Ndolo further ruled the company’s decision to introduce a probation clause more than three months into the claimant’s employment was unilateral and in violation of Sections 10(5) and 13(1) of the Employment Act.