Anti-corruption watchdog detectives on Friday raided private homes and offices of top officials from the Pyrethrum Processing Company of Kenya (PPCK) over suspected graft. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) descended on managing director Paul Lolwerikoi's residence and the PPCK's headquarters in Nakuru town, confiscating documents suspected to be related to corrupt activities at the State-owned firm. The investigators also raided homes belonging to the marketing director and an accountant. “The commission received reports to the effect that some of the senior officers in the company are involved in corrupt dealings. Our detectives obtained a search warrant before staging the raid,” said EACC South Rift deputy manager Christine Natome. Documents retrieved are said to be linked to flouted procurement rules, illegal leasing of the company’s assets and controversial tenders. Ms Natome said anti-graft cops were taking action following a tip off linking senior PPCK officials to illegal deals and mismanagement of public funds especially revenue collected on behalf of the company by the three officers. EACC obtained a search warrant from court on Thursday. “We have obtained crucial documents which will assist us in ongoing investigations,” said Ms Natome. EACC will communicate its findings and decide whether to summon the officers for questioning. Property lease On February this year, the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya Staff Superannuation Scheme raised a red flag over lease of properties belonging to the defunct Pyrethrum Board of Kenya (PBK) by PPCK. The former board has property spread out across the country worth more than Sh4 billion. The scheme members, led by spokesperson Harun Tinga, said it was wrong for PPCK to lease some of its assets while the scheme is in the process of liquidation. It was dissolved last year due heavy debts amounting to nearly Sh2 billion owed to pensioners and more than 200 workers at its Nakuru factory. READ: Firms get seedlings supply nod in pyrethrum revival bid ALSO READ: Pyrethrum agency warns counties to keep off its land