Right after checking into the luxurious Park Hyatt in Stone Town Zanzibar, I was shown to my room whose balcony offered an unmarred view of the beach. One of the impressive things about the design of the room is that the bathtub is placed in front of a wooden door which opens into the bedroom, offering a glimpse of the sea further beyond. If you fancy swimming in the sea, there is a beachside gate to access the sand shores where you can join the locals swimming, playing football, doing yoga or even fishing. The Omani influence can strongly be felt in the architecture and decor of Park Hyatt. The hotel which was opened early this year has a new and old building. Mambo Msiige mansion, for instance, was built in 1847 by a wealthy Omani tradesman. The government then took control of it after he took part in an attempted coup to overthrow ruler Seyyid Bargash. Art lover The building changed hands and had various functions in the following years, including being used as a hospital and later a British consulate, before being transformed into the luxury hotel it is today. The new building, also known as Zamani Residence, houses the rooms and restaurant. At the lobby you will see towering ceilings with wooden beams, skylights and golden brass chandeliers. The owner is an avid art lover and collector, and the hotel is therefore dotted with several unique pieces. There is even an entire gallery with a painter to give art lessons, for those who want to exercise their artistic thumbs. For dining, an outdoor patio is the best place to enjoy their buffet breakfast while taking in all the boats and dhows in the sea. It gets a little hot and humid in the afternoon, in which case the indoor restaurant with a show-kitchen comes in handy. They have an impressive selection of fresh juices including tamarind juice. For lunch, I had a pan seared kingfish with french fries while my companion had a Jamaican roast chicken. For a true taste of Zanzibar, however, I would highly recommend their Zanzibar pizza or the ever popular Zanzibar mix, also known as Urojo. At its Anantara spa, there is an expert South-East Asian masseuse. A cozy library overlooks the sea. There is also a cozy bar from which you can enjoy sundowners while getting a taste of the legendary Zanzibari warmth and hospitality. From the hotel, you can explore the Unesco World Heritage Site that is Stone Town, with attractions like Forodhani Market, House of Wonders, the Arabian Fort and Harbor and more only being a short walk away.