The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) says a total of Sh3 billion of recurrent expenditure might have been lost to fictitious spending in Migori, Kisii, Nyamira and Homa Bay counties. The commission says Homa Bay County alone lost Sh2 billion of its first term fiscal recurrent expenditure to dubious expenditures. Also on the commission’s radar is the payment of more than Sh400 million made to the ward reps by the assembly executives. In Kisii, the agency said the county executives cannot account for at least Sh700 million of its last development budget. EACC deputy chief executive Michael Mubea said they had already begun “tying the loose ends” of the investigative reports touching on the matter. He said the commission had also been looking into the irregular recruitment of hundreds of staff across the counties. In Nyamira, Mr Mubea said more than 1,000 guards were recruited into the service in “a gross and opaque manner and in flagrant abuse of the due process”. A similar situation is replicated in Kisii where dozens of staff were irregularly recruited during the electioneering period. READ: Governors seek law review to protect deals with Treasury Governor James Ongwae has since ordered a staff audit to weed out illegal employees. The audit was ordered in January and the report on the findings is yet to be released.Yesterday, the EACC said they had perused the files and were ready to act. County director of communication Maseme Machuka however dismissed claims of misappropriation of Sh700 million meant for development. He said they had not received any report from the agency and could only give response to official reports. “We may not be in a position to give response to general statements made out there,” Mr Maseme told the Business Daily, adding that already they had set modalities on how to take action against anyone found culpable. In Migori, director of finance Paul Mwita said he was not aware of any ongoing investigations on the county’s expenditure.