Police bosses in Mathira constituency, Nyeri County have banned boda boda operators from working past 11 p.m. to curb runaway crime in the area. Speaking after a security meeting between senior security officers from Mathira East and Mathira West sub counties Friday, they noted that criminals had infiltrated the motorcycle business. Mathira West Deputy County Commissioner Charles Munari reckons that allowing them to operate past midnight was a contributing factor to run-away crime. “We are not victimising boda boda operators. But we want to clearly give an order that after 11 they have no business idling about Karatina town or any other market,” he said while urging them to cooperate with the order. Area MP Rigathi Gachagua, who also attended the meeting, agreed with the directive and asked security officers to be ruthless in flushing out gangs that have been terrorising residents. “People committing crimes will be dealt with ruthlessly. We do not want to see situation where residents have to close their businesses early because they are worried about their safety,” he said. His Mathira East counterpart Pius Murugu said they had stepped up patrols and surveillance following a wave of crime that has hit the area with robbers mainly accosting businessmen within their homes. “It will not be business as usual. Security patrols will be heightened so that the public can feel our presence on the ground and robbers arrested,” he reassured, adding that the criminals were using local bars as hideout after committing crimes. Nyumba kumi Police bosses in the county have also announced that they will revive the Nyumba Kumi Initiative and community policing to curb rising insecurity. “In some places the initiative is not active yet they are very important. We cannot be everywhere but with community policing we are able to discuss issues and give vital information,” he said. However, some junior officers have been accused of colluding with criminals by furnishing them with important information. Mr Murugu said their bosses have begun taking disciplinary action against them. Local leaders have urged residents to cooperate with the police and volunteer information that could lead to the arrest of robbers. “Our people should not exaggerate security incidents because people panic and are not able to continue with their businesses,” he said, claiming discussions on social media were causing panic. READ: Boda Boda operators hold protest over CBD ban