Carry your glucometer If you are travelling this Easter weekend, ensure that you carry your glucometer. It will help you keep an eye on your glucose control as you indulge in different cuisines/treats. Difficulties in controlling your blood sugar despite taking your medication appropriately and eating healthily can be a sign of an underlying infection or an indication that your body is no longer responding to your drugs. If you experience challenges in controlling your blood sugar, inform your doctor as soon as possible. Medication adjustments Type 1 diabetics (those that exclusively use insulin injections to control their blood sugar levels) can adjust their insulin dosages depending on their sugar levels and in relation to their meals. This is often explained to them by their doctors/nurses. Type 2 diabetics (the ones who use tablets) should never self-adjust their medication dosages. Anti-diabetes tablets are notorious for causing dangerously low blood sugar levels if taken in inappropriate dosages. A number of type 2 diabetics also use insulin in addition to their tablets. Even in this scenario, self-adjusting the medication dosage is ill-advised. If you forget to take your pills in the morning, do not take double the dose in the evening (or at lunch time) to make up for the skipped dose. Stick to the prescribed dosages unless adjustments are recommended by your doctor. Exercise One of the greatest challenges doctors face when dealing with diabetics (especially those above the age of 50 years), is getting them to exercise. Most people believe that being diabetic makes you ‘fragile’. This is not true. Exercise with resultant weight loss has been found to improve blood sugar control in the majority of type 2 diabetics. You need not become slender but you need to be at a healthy weight. Being an overweight diabetic is a dangerous thing. You put yourself at a markedly increased risk for heart attack and stroke. You also have an increased risk of developing infections in your skin creases and folds. The medication requirement for obese diabetics tends to be higher than those with healthier weights. Exercise need not involve going to the gym or doing jumping jacks in your backyard, a simple 30-minute brisk walk is sufficient daily exercise for most people. This can slowly be increased with time. During this Easter weekend, make it your mission to at least get 30 minutes of exercise every day – your body will thank you for it. Weight control Most people gain a little weight during the holiday season. Often, this is due to over-indulgence in holiday treats. As a diabetic, your goal should be to avoid this holiday weight gain and at the very least maintain your current weight. Weight loss, if need be, will likely only be realistically feasible once you get into a good exercise programme whilst maintaining a healthy diet. New shoes Most of us spoil ourselves (and our loved ones) with a new pair of shoes during the holiday season. If you are getting a new pair of shoes for a diabetic, you must ensure that the size is right. Avoid getting them shoes that are stylish but do not conform to the natural contour of the foot. Diabetics are prone to getting problems with the joints of their feet and poor foot wear can aggravate this. In addition, poor foot wear can be associated with calluses and corns which can be a challenge to deal with in diabetics. Walking bare feet Diabetics should never walk bare feet whilst outdoors – even on the beach. This is because, one, if you get poked on the foot- even by something small like a shell, you could end up with a wound that does not heal. Secondly, most people who have lived with diabetes for many years have very poor sensation in their feet. This means that if you get injured you may not notice the injury for days. During this time, these wounds can become infected with disastrous outcomes. Very hot sand has also been known to cause superficial burns on feet – something that would not be a major problem with most people but can be fraught with complications in diabetics. Special diet for diabetics? If you were diagnosed with diabetes 20 years ago you were often put on a strict, often bland diet in an attempt to control your blood sugar. It wasn’t unusual to find a diabetic eating a plate of boiled rice with boiled pumpkin and sukuma wiki while the rest of the family had pilau and fried vegetable stew. This strict diet is no longer advocated for in diabetes management. A diabetic can (and should) eat the same diet as the whole family. Once someone is diagnosed with diabetes it just means that the entire family needs to adopt healthier food choices. Pick whole grains instead of refined grain, eat complex carbohydrates like yams and cassava, increase the amount of vegetables in each meal – all of which are part of a healthy diet for everyone. This holiday season, encourage your family to embrace a healthier meal plan that can be enjoyed by all — including the diabetics amongst them. Soda or juice? During the festive season, it is not unusual to find a diabetic declining to put sugar in their cup of tea or coffee only for them to go on and have a soda later. Soda and most commercially available juices are loaded with sugar and are not a good option for diabetics. If you must have some fruit juice, opt for something that is freshly squeezed and limit yourself to one glass per sitting. If you are still thirsty, top up with water. How about dessert? Most diabetics can have the occasional treat. This includes a small slice of cake, ice cream (there are diabetes friendly options in the market) and even a piece of dark chocolate. It is, however, important to mind your portions and avoid over-indulging in these tasty treats.