I have been feeling very pleased with myself over the last couple of days because I have cash- I am loaded. We finally concluded the sale of the shop and my account balance is a few million shillings richer. The bank relationship manager already called me saying he wants to “interest me in some investment options.” I found this interesting considering that I hardly hear from him-in fact I did not know I had one. I must say it was somewhat flattering to receive the call and I told Shiro about the conversation as soon as I got home. Shiro also had her view on how we should spend the money. She said, “we can finally move to a new house, as I have been telling you.” I am still opposed to the whole moving idea since it would translate to more rent and more expenses. I also like my current neighbourhood- the pub, the barber’s shop and the fact that the kids’ school is not too far away. Shiro seems to have a different view and keeps sending me images of lovely looking residences. To avoid further conflict, I decided to tell her, “let us wait for 30 days and then we decide what to do.” What Shiro does not know is that I also have a secret project that I wish we could invest in. I need a new car. I have been driving my current car for the last five years and just the other day one of my cousins poked fun at me saying, “how can someone so senior drive such a jalopy?” Ordinarily such comments would not bother me, but of late my car has been making lots of funny noises and it stalled in rain just last week. I suspect that Shiro will not be too sold on my idea, but I must find a way of getting her to see my point of view. Back to things in the office where I have been talking to the ‘external auditor’ who has been tasked to look at the deeds and misdeeds of my former CEO. What shocked me is that the other day while in the lift this lady called Janet said something interesting. She started off by asking me about my family as she said, “you know I was classmates with your wife in college.” This stunned me for Shiro has never told me about her ex-classmate. She told me about how,“Shiro was so hot in college. We even wondered how you managed to tune her- we talk about it all the time in the chama.” This again was news to me that Shiro is in the same chama with this Janet chick. Soon as we got off the lift, Janet followed me to my office and said, “Josphat, I have been meaning to ask you, how is the investigation going?” I quickly responded and said, “which investigation? About what?” She laughed and said, “calm down, there are no secrets in this place. Everyone knows that the former boss is being investigated.” I told her, “I have no visibility of the actual investigation, I am just waiting for my turn to share what I know.” Her voice dramatically changed as she said, “I have some information that I would like to share with the investigator.” I was torn between my curiosity and my need to protect the integrity of the investigation. Just as I was contemplating what to do, my phone rang- it was the former CEO. I gave Janet a signal that I would call her late so that I could have time alone to listen to what my former boss had to say. The former CEO sounded anxious on the phone and said, “Josphat my boy, when can we meet? I hear the investigation is not looking good at all. You need to tell me what is really happening.” I could not help thinking, “why does everyone think I can be a tell-tale?”