The government will use Sh300 million to control spread of destructive Tree Locusts (Anacridium) in five counties. Already the Ministry of Agriculture has started using planes to spray the infested areas in both Isiolo and Turkana counties. A total of 1,000 hectares have been sprayed so far, leaving a balance of 3,000 hectares. Other counties that have reported presence of these insects are Samburu, Isiolo, Wajir, Marsabit and Garissa. According to Dr Johnson Irungu, Director of Agriculture Crop Resources, priority was given to sites with heavy locust density. Dr Irungu said heavy rainfall received across the country in the months of March to June, promoted growth of crops but also regenerated vegetation in non-cropped land. “This increased availability of vegetation, however, enabled breeding and multiplication of tree locusts with the first outbreak reported in June in Isiolo County. However, in the months of July and August, new outbreak reports were received from the Northern region of the country in counties such as Turkana, Samburu, Marsbit and Garissa,” he said last week. Dr Irungu said the State Department for Crop Development in liaison with counties received notification on occurrence of these transboundary pests from infestation regions. The most affected areas include Merti sub county (along Ewaso Ng'iro valley) of Isiolo. In Turkana, the locust has been reported in all sub counties of Turkana West, Turkana East, Turkana Central, Loima, Turkana South and Turkana North with a total area of 4,000 hectares affected. The locust density is 150-200 insects per tree and are causing massive damage to shrubs of prosopsis, acacia tree species and pasture. This is threatening especially the livehood of the pastoral community. Dr Irungu said: “Their damage depletes animal feed and pasture with treetop grazers being most affected. This scenario may result to pastoralists migration and internal conflicts, threatening national security.” He also noted that if quick measurers are not taken, it may also result to human-wildlife conflict. The department has already exhausted the 1,600 litres of ULV pesticides, the type used for locusts and armyworms control which had been procured during 2017/2018 financial year. “The extent of current tree locust outbreak had not been foreseen. This calls for emergency support. As a department, we will establish a Toll-Free Line where counties, stakeholders and general public can send information on outbreaks of transboundary pest and diseases,” he stated. In order to execute adequate control operations in current outbreak areas and the forecasting other counties, Dr Irungu said an estimated 32,000 liters of ULV pesticides for aerial application are needed.