Kenyan banks collectively earned Sh58.6 billion net profit in the six months between January and end of June, posting a 12.7 per cent growth in defiance of a two-year interest rate cap that limits margins chargeable on customer loans. Profit announcements by the banks show that majority of the lenders (30 banks out of 39) reported a net profit in the period, with nine making losses. The data shows that the banks have now taken their profits back to pre-interest rate cap levels, matching the net earnings of the first half of 2016 (also Sh58.6 billion). The rate cap came into effect in August 2016. The lenders have been campaigning hard against the control on cost of loans. Treasury secretary Henry Rotich lost a spirited fight to repeal the rate cap law, as the architect of the law, Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo, rallied legislators to reject the amendment in the Finance Bill 2018. Banks have in retaliation piled cash in treasury papers denying households and small businesses loans while citing inability to price-in their default risks. The industry earnings, however, show that they are still able to squeeze out double-digit profit growth. Treasury securities held by the banks have shot up to Sh1.114 trillion from Sh998 billion in June 2017. Interest income from government securities rose by 16.5 per cent to Sh60.5 billion, while interest income from customer loans was up two per cent to Sh141.5 billion in the six-month period. Net interest income was up by five per cent to Sh134.4 billion as a result. In contrast, the first half of 2017 had seen interest income from customer loans drop by 19 per cent, with the growth this time round indicating that the negative impact of the rate cap has bottomed out and the banks are now able to lend to their customers profitably. Their recovery has coincided with the improvement—albeit gradual—in the growth of private sector credit.   CBK data shows that the 12-month private sector credit growth stood at 4.3 per cent at the end of June 2018, compared to 1.8 per cent at the beginning of the year and 1.5 per cent in June 2017. Top tier lenders (as per CBK classification) are, however, faring much better than their tier two and three rivals in terms of profitability. The eight large banks collectively reported net earnings of Sh48 billion, a year-on-year growth of 17 per cent, which represents 81 per cent of the industry’s total net profit. The tier one lenders’ net profit of Sh41 billion in the first half of 2017 represented 78.8 per cent of the industry total. The latest Central Bank statistics show that the tier one lenders held a market share of 66 per cent by the end of 2017, with 11 tier two lenders accounting for 26.1 per cent and the 11 tier three banks 7.9 per cent. Large banks, analysts say, are able to gather deposits more cheaply compared to their smaller peers, and have also been able to lend the government more cash and therefore cushion themselves better against the lower customer loan rates. The proposed review of the rate cap that will see the deposit floor removed is also likely to hurt smaller lenders, who will find it difficult to attract deposits once again when coming up against larger rivals. “Bigger banks will rely on quality and scale to draw in money. Small ones will be forced to fight for deposits using higher rates, like was the case in years past. In the presence of the M-Pesa juggernaut, their desperation could mean reckless lending to fatten interest margin,” said Riverside Capital Advisory managing director Deepak Dave. “Small banks can’t rely on fee income as they have no products…thus lower profits, more desperate loan decisions and ultimately more chewing up of capital for non-performing asset losses.” MPs last week voted to remove the clause in the rate cap law that forces banks to pay at least 70 per cent of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) base rate on deposits, which currently sets the minimum saving rates at 6.3 per cent. The changes, contained in the Finance Bill 2018, will come into force once it is signed into law by President Uhuru Kenyatta. By forcing banks to compete for deposits, without the option of loading the premium on customer loans, smaller lenders will most likely lose out, pushing more of them into losses. Previously, they were able to charge higher interest rates for loans, sometimes up to 30 per cent, which they justified by saying that they were also paying more for deposits, and were willing to lend to riskier customers such as SMEs.