Nairobi MCAs Thursday voted to impeach County Assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi over allegations of abuse of office, interfering with county procurement and misuse of public funds. 103 MCAs voted in support of the motion tabled by Waithaka MCA, Antony Kiragu, two opposed the motion while two abstained from the vote. The law requires a resolution to be supported by not less than 75 per cent of all members of the county assembly to impeach the speaker. Elachi is accused of intimidating procurement officers to award purchase of the speaker’s residence to a bidder who had quoted Sh125 million, yet City Hall had capped the price at Sh100 million. Kiragu alleged that on May 23, the embattled speaker used Sh1.5 million of public funds to travel to the US, contrary to the requirement that state officers use business class tickets while on official duty outside the country. The Waithaka MCA further said the speaker travelled to Texas, USA for plastic and knee surgery, as evidenced by claims from CIC Insurance worth Sh1 million. Elachi had purported to travel for a Diaspora Women conference. Elachi had purported to travel for the Diaspora Women conference while purporting to attend the Diaspora Women conference. The speaker has also been accused of using half a million shillings to pay for a Honorary Doctorate Degree from London Graduate School in Dubai, which is suspiciously run from Nigeria. Kiragu also accused Elachi of contravening County Assembly Powers and Privileges Act, 2017 when she unilaterally allowed police officers not attached to the assembly to arrest several officials over a flawed procurement deal. The officials are facing allegations of flouting procurement rules in a questionable Sh0.9 million tender to supply books to the county in the 2016-17 financial year. “Mr. Speaker, backed by the documents I have gathered from travel agents, hospitals and other parties involved, I beg the house to support the motion and make history for the city,” Kiragu said. The house was near-full contrary to previous sessions characterized by dismal attendance, signalling the members’ intent to throw her out of office. The move appears to be the last blow to Elachi’s troubled stay as the first ever elected speaker of the county assembly of Nairobi. Elachi had dismissed off the MCAs plan to impeach her last week, saying allegations on her conduct were a non-issue and that MCAs should turn their focus on serving city residents. A previous attempt to impeach her failed after the mover of the motion failed to appear before the house, in June.