Nairobi governor Mike Sonko on Monday dissolved the Pumwani Maternity Hospital following the discovery of 12 corpses of infants hidden in boxes. Sonko also suspended the superintendent Dr Catherine Mutinda, the hospital superintendent, Dr James Kamau who was supposed to be on duty Sunday and Zaddock Angahya, the facility’s administrator. Sonko further ordered them to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them in the next 14 days. “HE the Governor has with immediate appointed Dr Simon Mueke to take charge as the medical superintendent of Pumwani hospital and further instructed the chief officer and the County Executive Member for Health to oversee a fully functional structure for the hospital to avert any further service delivery lapses,” read a statement from Sonko’s office. Mothers claim that staff at the hospital switched off the power to the new-born unit on Sunday night, leading to the deaths. Sonko had arrived at the city hospital on a boda boda catching staff un-awareness, after he received photos from distraught patients which showed bodies being moved from the new-borns unit. “Earlier today, I received information at around 7am that six bodies had been moved from the new-borns unit, why are you lying that it is only one body?” an angry Sonko who was live on his Facebook page is seen lashing out at the worker. The worker had said only one infant had died in the last 24 hours, but the opening up of two more carton revealed an even disturbing picture of six bodies stuffed inside. The lifeless bodies were found wrapped in polythene bags and stuffed in three boxes inside a store instead of a mortuary. The governor also found female patients waiting helplessly for a gynaecologist, with no one to serve them. The obstetrician gynaecologist, Dr James Kamau who was supposed to be duty had not yet reported to work. At the delivery section, he discovered that mothers paid for services the city facility with hospital management saying it was necessitated by their yet-to-be activated NHIF cards. The Monday morning burst by Sonko is the latest to hit the city’s oldest maternity hospital. The maternity facility has been in the news for all the wrong reasons. In the past, it hit headlines over theft of babies, alleged negligence, poor services and maltreatment of women in labour. Nurses went on a two-day strike in March 2015 to protest allegations baby-theft involving hospital staff.