Former senior civil servants and influential politicians in retired President Daniel arap Moi’s regime are embroiled in a tussle with squatters occupying Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) land in Nandi. Also drawn into the dispute are the ADC management and the Nandi county government, which has told the squatters to ignore calls to vacate the land. The squatters are accusing the Moi-era power men of plotting to evict them from the land they claim belonged to their great grandparents. The personalities include former Director-General of the National Intelligence Service Wilson Boinett, the families of a former permanent secretary, a former assistant minister and a former commissioner of police, and the daughter of a former MP. Tindiret MP Julius Meli has supported the more than 2,000 squatters, telling them to ignore directives from the ADC management to vacate the land for alternative settlement. A majority of the squatters are former employees of the ADC Kimwani and claim the disputed land belonged to their great grandparents. The Tindiret MP on Sunday said the Kanu government allocated top civil servants and military chiefs huge tracts of land at Kimwani ADC between 1996 and 1997 while the squatters were also allocated the same land before 2002. “I am against plans by the ADC to evict the squatters and instead urge top personalities to return the land for settlement of the landless. The well-connected personalities own thousands of hectares which President Moi gave them in other parts of the country,” said Mr Meli. The county government holds that the squatters have no alternative land and dismissed directives by the ADC requiring them to vacate the land. The squatters held a meeting with Nandi County Lands CEC Jacob Tanui, Chief Officer Solomon Mangira and Youths and Sports CEC Ely Kurgat demanding that ADC be stopped from evicting them. The squatters claim they are not allowed to bury their relatives on the disputed land. Mr Tanui and Mangira promised to liaise with the management of ADC to allow squatters to stay on the farms and pursue dialogue to avoid confrontations and forceful evictions. He said the county government had given out a detailed report on the historical land injustices against the local community dating back to the colonial period and after indendepence in 1963. A letter dated July 17, 2018 and signed by a Mr A Ademba for the ADC MD says in part, “As your are aware the ADC is conducting survey work on the former ADC farms which squatters are living on and is in the process of finalising the exercise before handing over the issue to the Ministry of Land Kapsabet to process land tittles. Those who do not provide details to ADC will be left out of the exercise which the company wants completed.” The letter says the squatters who would be affected are those occupying the land RL 24076/58 in Kimwani EMITI and who would be relocated to another land within the locality. But the squatters’ spokesman, Simeon Chepkwony, insists they are not ready to vacate their current settlement.