Kenya’s rapid population growth has exposed two critical water towers, Chyulu Hills and East Mau, to depletion. The Kenya Water Towers Agency (KWTA) in a report tabled in Parliament says the two towers face degradation mainly due to change in land use attributable to human settlement pressures. KWTA says land cover in the water towers is getting depleted due to cutting of trees for firewood, charcoal, opening land for cultivation, forests and bush fires and excision of gazetted forests for human settlement. “Reduction in forest cover degrades critical water catchments leading to decline in water flows from springs and rivers especially during the dry season and flooding in rainy conditions,” Isaac Kalua, the chairperson of KWTA, says in the report. He says Chyulu‘s estimated total economic value as at end of 2015 stood at Sh40.92 billion ($409 million) while that of East Mau was Sh1.2 billion. Chyulu and Mzima account for about 52 per cent of the Sh40.92 billion. Water for domestic, irrigation and livestock use accounts for eight per cent, carbon sequestration, land, biodiversity and aquifers 27 per cent and the rest 15 per cent. The report indicates that the entire Mau water tower has an estimated economic value of Sh110.512 billion while Aberdares is estimated to be worth Sh56.52 billion. “These results show the importance of the water tower to the environs and the country in the broader context,” it says. The report says the population of Chyulu Hills, which stood at 65,000 on the eastern side and 6,500 on the western side in the 2009 National Census, has increased significantly over the years. “Many town centers have expanded and new ones sprung up along the major highways…these centers have high population densities which inevitably lead to high demand for products and services from the water tower,” it states. KWTA says the major challenge facing Chyulu Hills water tower is the extraction of water directly from the spring that leads to drying of rivers and wetlands. The report cites illegal logging, frequent forest fires, human wildlife conflicts, declining forest cover and biodiversity and reduced water flows from the springs and rivers as other challenges posing a big threat to Chyulu Hills water tower. The East Mau water tower that is located in Nakuru and Narok counties with a total area of about 157,000 hectares has an estimated economic value of Sh1.2 billion, KWTA estimates. “The tower has declining flow of water in springs and rivers such as Molo, Njoro and Sondu. The forestland in the gazetted forest has decreased by up to 40 per cent of the area,” the agency said. KWTA says encroachment into the gazetted forest area due to lack of clear demarcation and fencing boundary coupled with rapid population growth in the region are among the key threats to the water tower. “Key interventions include survey and clear demarcation of boundaries followed by fencing. There is need to strengthen joint enforcement unit,” the report recommends.