The Mombasa county government has ordered the closure of a local storage plant accused of emitting huge amounts of clinker dust in the air and endangering the lives of local residents. The factory, which is based in Mikindani, has been asked to cease operations until its owners comply with the health and environmental safety standards putting hundreds of jobs on the line. Action on Corrugated Sheets, a company that is located in Jomvu sub-county, came in the wake of protests that it was releasing fumes that are making children sick. Corrugated Sheets is one of the manufacturing concerns that include Mombasa Cement, a Nairobi-based cement maker. Head of the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) in Mombasa Stephen Wambua said operations at Corrugated Sheets had been stopped and will not resume until it is in full compliance with the environmental regulations. "The compound belongs to Motrex Transport and Logistics Company, but the facility that stores clinker belongs to Corrugated Sheets,” Mr Wambua said even as he clarified that imported clinker is stored in a number of premises upon landing at the port of Mombasa. “They offload the consignments from the vessels, transport it to the godowns before moving it to the cement factories,” he said, adding that the problem of toxic dust mainly arises during loading and offloading. Exposure to clinker dust is known to cause severe skin irritation and affects the eyes. Nema said it held talks with owners of the facility upon receiving complaints from local residents during which it issued orders. “We have today told them to stop loading or offloading until they put in place mitigation measures. The facility cannot receive, offload or load clinker until it is fully compliant,” he said. Environmental experts and Corrugated Sheets managers are expected to meet Nema officials this morning to agree on a work plan. Mombasa county secretary Francis Thoya said he had directed the company to immediately stop its activities in Mikindani pending resolution of the problem. He has also directed the Public Health officers to investigate claims that there were more companies storing toxic substances in the Jomvu area. For months, hundreds of residents have been protesting and petitioning the county government to shut down the company which they accuse of causing illnesses in the area through its activities. Mr Thoya warned government agencies against issuing permits to companies that do not meet environmental and health requirement. He said the county will not wait until the firm has destroyed the health of those living in nearby village such as Owino Uhuru. "We have issued notices and we are determined to ensure both investors and residents rights are respected and protected,” Mr Thoya said.