More than 30,000 farmers in Tana River County are set to benefit from seeds and farm inputs from Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO). Speaking to journalists during the flagging off of a seeds consignment at Hola on Tuesday, FAO managing director Gabriel Lugarema said the organization had procured 65 tones of seeds for the farmers that were adversely affected by the floods. "We have come to support the people whose crops were destroyed by the floods. We intend to see them get back to their feet in terms of food security, " he said. Mr Lugarema said the organization had also procured farm inputs and pesticides for the farmers. FAO, he said, had partnered with the county government in ensuring that farmers got more seeds and more knowledge on sustainable agricultural practices. "We are working as a team with the county government to ensure that we encourage not just planting by providing seeds, but also sustainable agricultural practices, "he said. However, the director warned the residents not to use the seeds for food, as they had specifically been made for planting, and would create health defects or even death upon consumption. Further, the director advised farmers to take advantage of their being close to the river and venture into large scale food production. He said as much as the National Irrigation's Board managed production at the scheme, small scale farmers could as well unite to give NIB a run for their money in the market. "The NIB here seems to be the mother of food production but it is yet to give enough, farmers should then take advantage of the gap and give the parastatal a run for their money by uniting, consolidating farms and doing mega projects," he said. He said the County, once a food basket still had the potential to bring to life the lost glory, and should strive towards achieving that potential. The organisation supplied farmers with maize, rice, green grams, peas and kale seeds, as it prepares to equip them with hoes, sprayers and machetes. The Sh50 million initiatives is set to curb the prolonged food shortage in the county that that has seen the county government supply food items to 80,000 affected by the floods people over the past five months.