The Treasury has once again put the development budget on the chopping board as it moves to finance President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda projects and pay lecturers, teachers and doctors. The recurrent expenditure is Sh23 billion larger in the second mini-budget that comes just two months to the end of the current financial year. The security sector has also been allocated substantial resources in the revised budget. The Ministry of Health is the biggest winner in the revised budget proposals that gives it additional Sh18.1 billion followed by the Teachers Service Commission with Sh16.3 billion, University Education (Sh5.7 billion), Basic Education (Sh1.9 billion), Interior (Sh4 billion), Foreign Affairs (Sh1.8 billion), Defence (Sh1.5 billion), Correctional Services (Sh1.2 billion) and the Presidency (Sh1 billion). READ: How to ensure that better healthcare agenda takes off Lecturers are currently on a month-long strike in pursuit of a pay increment agreed under the 2017/2022 collective bargaining agreement (CBA), while doctors and nurses have promised to follow suit if their CBA is not implemented as signed. The Treasury is the biggest casualty of the budget realignment that lost a total of Sh60 billion in both recurrent and development budget cut. The State Department of Infrastructure is the second biggest loser with Sh34.5 billion, Energy (Sh7.8 billion), Agriculture (Sh4.1 billion), Vocational Training (Sh3.2 billion) and Interior (Sh2.8 billion) in capital expenditure. Other losers of development cash are ICT (Sh1.5 billion), Special Programmes (Sh1.1 billion) and the Parliamentary Service Commission (Sh1.1 billion). The State Department of Defence (Sh7.4 billion), Devolution (Sh4 billion), Planning and Statistics (Sh4.7 billion), Industry (Sh3.4 billion), Water (Sh2.8 billion), Basic Education (Sh2.7 billion), Livestock (Sh2 billion) and (Irrigation (Sh1.1 billion) make the list of the top beneficiaries of the revised development spending. Development budget trim This is the second time in less than eight months that the Treasury is slashing development budget to meet pressing national needs. In September last year, the Treasury, through the first Supplementary Budget, cut development spending by Sh30 billion, from Sh642 billion to Sh612 billion. The September budget trimming was triggered by a request from the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) for Sh12 for the presidential election re-run, but the Cabinet approved Sh10 billion for the repeat poll. In the second mini-budget that the Leader of Majority Aden Daule tabled in Parliament last evening, Mr Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda appears to be taking shape – having received substantial allocations to line ministries. The President late last year announced his intention to focus on health, agriculture, manufacturing and food security as growth stimulants during his second and final term in office. The Treasury has now allocated the Department of Health Sh18 billion, Investment and Industry (Sh3.5 billion), Agriculture (Sh3.9 billion) and Irrigation (Sh1.1 billion) in both recurrent and development spending. The Agriculture ministry has been allocated Sh1.9 billion under recurrent budget and Sh2 billion for development under State Department of Livestock. Big Four The allocation to Big Four appears to be in response to Parliament’s criticism of the Treasury for failing to allocate funds for implementation of the agenda in the next financial year. MPs had noted that key sectors aligned to the agenda did not have sufficient budgetary allocation to implement the projects. The Budget and Appropriations Committee (BAC) had pointed out that there was no indication that the Big Four would be sufficiently funded in the 2018/19 budget estimates. “To illustrate, according to the expenditure projections of the health sector an estimated Sh300 billion is required over the next five years to achieve universal health coverage,” BAC said. The committee said that from the analysis of budget expenditures, it was evident that the money had not been provided for in the medium term. The latest spending cuts come as Kenya races to rein in a ballooning budget deficit and appetite for borrowing amid missed revenue targets. Below target The government’s revenue collection for the fiscal year starting July was behind target by Sh29 billion — an outcome that has been linked to the prolonged electioneering period in the last quarter of 2017. This is what has forced a realignment of the budget that has come with multiple sanctions, including a ban on foreign travels without clearance from the President and a review of domestic travels. The government remains the biggest buyer of goods and services and reduced spending has an effect on economic growth which the World Bank has now downgraded to 5.5 per cent from the initial forecast of 5.9 per cent. State spending puts money in private hands through demand for raw materials, which ultimately creates new jobs. READ: State says house to cost Sh1.5m in ‘Big Four’ plan ALSO READ: Treasury sets up financier of low-cost home loans