Nairobi County plans to take 300 small-scale traders, boda boda riders and matatu operators to Rwanda to learn better ways of management and order in their operations. City Hall director of operations, Peter Mbaya, said the three groups will each contribute 100 members to be taken to the East African country for the benchmarking trip. “There are plans to take the group to Rwanda for benchmarking to appreciate there are better ways of managing their businesses and in a civil way,” said Mbaya on Thursday. He stated that the process of identifying the individuals who will be going to Rwanda is ongoing. READ: Sonko’s CFO pick admits to inexperience More markets He noted county had budgeted for construction of additional markets in every sub-county to accommodate small-scale traders removed from the city centre. The city official said matatu operators will leave the city centre in less than a week. This will be in line with the county's promise to end the chaotic and disorderly nature of matatu operations in the city. City Hall is now repairing the last terminus along Thika Road next to GSU headquarters, which has been holding up the directive, he said. “We did demolitions and now we are doing repair to the termini to be in good shape and very soon we will be announcing the date they are to leave the CBD,” he said. He added that the county will vet the matatus that will be allowed to enter into the central business district. READ: Nairobi Railway Station set for facelift to ease traffic congestion Influx of hawkers Mr Mbaya blamed the influx of hawkers for blocking of city streets, alleys and entire sidewalks meant for motorists and pedestrians. Besides, he said, there was an upsurge of street families with many engaging in crime including mugging and sale of drugs have necessitated the operations. He also cited the increase in boda boda operators who flout traffic rules, and some used by gangsters to escape after indulging in crime. The official denied claims that members of the county's security unit were inhumane during their operations, saying everything was done within the rules. “As the person in charge, I have always ensured that before we undertake any exercise the likely affected are given enough notice to vacate or relocate,” he said. READ: Agency lays out rapid bus transit plan to decongest Nairobi ALSO READ: Boda Boda operators hold protest over CBD ban