Ekeza Savings and Credit and Credit Cooperative Society has challenged its deregistration in a legal row that puts at risks deposits in excess of Sh2.56 billion. In a case filed at the High Court on Tuesday, the sacco is seeking orders to quash the decision of the Commissioner for Cooperative Development, arguing the closure was in bad faith. It further wants the commissioner Mary Mungai stopped from making any further comments alleging that it failed to comply with the law. Through a Gazette notice published on March 23, Ms Mungai cancelled the registration of the sacco stating that it had failed to meet its objectives. Ms Mungai then ordered it to close down all its 26 offices across the country until it complied with the law. She urged those aggrieved by the cancellation of its licence to appeal to the Cabinet Secretary within 60 days. But Gladys Wanjiku Muriithi, the chief executive officer of Ekeza, argued that the cancellation is in breach of rules of natural justice. She added that the move has put into peril the fate of the business and it’s over 50,000 members. READ: Home ownership in doubt as Sh3bn sacco shut down The sacco was operating together with housing scheme labeled Gakuyo Real Estate company—which required prospective home buyers to deposit a minimum of Sh10,000 as booking fee and further savings to acquire houses. Thousands of scheme members are yet to receive the homes. Ms Muriithi said that members have an outstanding loan of Sh2.6 billion and savings of Sh2.56 billion, which is now in jeopardy following the cancellation. Ms Muriithi said that the Commissioner of Cooperatives Development ordered an audit of the sacco after rumours started circulating that the sacco’s chairman David Ngari was running for political office and was likely to use members’ contributions for his campaigns. The commissioner was unhappy with the sacco sharing office with Gakuyo Real Estate Company. Ms Muriithi said the sacco accepted the suggestions and started separation of premises of over 40 branches, which is an expensive affair as new premises are being sourced.