The construction sector is grappling with cost escalation after the government late February imposed a three-month ban on logging. Sawmills and some construction sites have gone quiet while timber product makers have sharply increased prices owing to the scarcity. The ban also saw timber and logs movement permits suspended indefinitely across the country leaving dealers stuck with freshly cut logs lying in the forests and private plantations uncollected. Construction sites in Nairobi are either paralysed or having to pay double for poles and timber. Poles that previously went for Sh150 a piece are now costing at least Sh300. READ: WATIMA: Why Kenya should consider a forest bond for its forest investment campaign ALSO READ:More pain for poor as charcoal price hits Sh2,500 a bag Clarify the ban The government at the weekend promised to clarify the ban, that has also hurt KTDA factories, this week even as it extends the life of the task force looking at the matter for a month. Timber Manufacturers Association (TMA) chairman Herman Thogoto said raw materials worth millions of shillings within their yards were wasting away, adding that some of their members might default on loan repayments leading to collapse of their businesses or seizure and auction of their properties. “Some of us had stocks worth over Sh50 million in our yards and other uncollected felled logs inside forests, which are wasting away. Every day our raw materials’ worth is depreciating and we plead with the government to reconsider the move,” he said. A spot-check at various forests within the Mau Forest in Nakuru including Kiptunga, Marioshoni, Logman, Bararget, Makutano, Sorget and Kerisoi forests at the border of Nakuru and Kericho counties revealed that felled trees worth millions of shillings were still lying in the forests following withdrawal of permits. READ: Tea companies say logging ban to hit production High alert Thakara Nithi Forest Ecosystem Conservator Benjamin Kinyili said his rangers were on high alert not to allow any movement of timber or logs along any road round the clock until fresh directives are given. “We are under strict instructions not to allow movement of any log, not even Eucalyptus poles used by the construction industry or any forest products needed by wood products manufacturers for the next three months,” he said. Charles Kimita, a TMA official, said some saw millers had since been taken to court by clients for non-delivery and failure to refund money paid for timber products. “Despite the ban, our workers have declined to resign and expect us to pay them at the end of the month. "We want to retain good workers whom we are paying for work not done while some clients have indicated their intention to move to court to recover their money,” Mr Kimita said.