Nyandarua County has missed its levy collection target by over 50 per cent, about three months to the closure of current financial year. The county anticipated to collect Sh371 million but has only attained Sh179.8 million, about 48 per cent of the target. The expected collection accounts for 6.1 per cent of the total county budget estimates, which is Sh.6.5 billion for the current financial year. A report from the county treasury shows the devolved unit collected Sh97.6 million during the peak season between January and end of March, compared to Sh82.2 million received between July and December last year. Governor Francis Kimemia said dismally performing areas in revenue remittance include hiring of agriculture machinery, approval of building plans, change of land use, land sub-division, weight and measures, movement permits and certificate of transport. The shortfall comes despite the county introducing incentives to revenue collection staff. READ: Nyandarua potato processor finds fresh life in vegetables Speaking during the launch of new uniforms to revenue collectors, Mr Kimemia said the poor performance is unacceptable and threatened disciplinary action against chief officers whose departments fail to hit the targets. “This is unacceptable. Receivers of revenue who do not collect or fail to remit revenue will not be tolerated.  I have directed all chief officers who are accounting officers of their departments to take charge of all revenue issues in their units,” said the governor. “Chief officers will be personally held responsible for poor revenue performance in their respective areas.” Mr Kimemia said revenue administration and enforcement bills should be formulated immediately. “I urge the Revenue Inspectorate to work closely with our enforcement team to ensure there is total compliance with existing laws.  I also direct the Department of Public Administration and ICT to ensure that electronic dashboards are in place to monitor not just county projects per department,” he said.