Several illegal businesses and structures along Nairobi River were brought down as the cleanup of the river began on Friday, as part of the city's regeneration programme. A National Youth Service (NYS) excavator was driven through the structures along the riverbank, from the Globe Cinema roundabout all the way to the garages at Grogan. On its way, it brought down M-Pesa shops, food kiosks, billboards, containers and garage shelters that were within 30 metres from the river. The operation started early on Friday morning. Owners of the affected businesses scrambled to salvage the little they could as the structures came tumbling down with little resistance. READ: The billions spent unlocking Nairobi traffic   Heavy security A contingent of heavily armed Kenya Police and Administrative Police officers, jointly with the Nairobi County Inspectorate team, provided security during the operation. “I was not aware the excavator would come this early to start the demolitions. I have not had time to salvage what I had left in my eatery,” said Mama Njeri, a businesswoman who looked on as the unforgiving excavator tore into her kibanda. And just like Mama Njeri, most owners of the illegal structures looked on helplessly, as the officers present ensured there was no resistance from the traders. There were some who took advantage of the ensuing melee to make away with valuable goods housed in the garages, with the flattened area turning into a battlefield between the looters and the owners of the businesses. The looters, mostly street children taking away metallic products, occasionally received a beating. The operation follows the launch of the river’s cleanup plan on Thursday by the Ministry of Environment and the national environmental agency, who also promised to expand the exercise to all other affected rivers in Nairobi. READ: LETTERS: Water shortage demands urgent restoration of threatened towers   Command centre Environment Principal Secretary Charles Sunkuli said a command centre, Nairobi River Restoration Command Centre, has been set up for the cleaning. Besides that, a multi-agency approach has been adopted by the government for the programme where government departments and the county government will be involved. Mr Sunkuli warned individuals encroaching on rivers and riparian reserves that their structures would be demolished during the operation. “We have today started with Nairobi River but this exercise will also be carried out in other rivers including Mathare, Mbagathi, Kirichwa Kubwa and Kirichwa Ndogo among others. “This is part of regeneration of Nairobi County, which is a directive from President Uhuru Kenyatta,” said Sunkuli on Thursday where he led a team in cleaning up Michuki Park next to the Globe Cinema roundabout off Kijabe Street.   Shut premises National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) director-general Geoffrey Wahungu said they had already mapped out premises polluting rivers in Nairobi, which would be closed down. He also warned that slaughterhouses that do not have proper waste management system will also be shut. “We urge citizens to obey relevant regulations regarding riparian reserves and waste management,” said Prof Wahungu.