NIC Bank   has urged leaders in government and corporate entities to institutionalise measures they take which make a difference in life across Kenya. NIC board of directors chairman James Ndegwa said this is the only way to cement the gains made across the government and in the corporate sector. “We commend the late Natural Resources Minister John Michuki for restoring the riparian green cover along Nairobi River and raising the red flag over forest degradation. But after he left, everything collapsed into wanton environmental degradation as we see it today,” he said. Speaking during the NIC bank-led ‘Change the Story’ campaign at Michuki Forest in Nairobi, Mr Ndegwa proposed inclusion of a mandatory practical environmental learning programme for schoolchildren in the curriculum to nurture a lifelong commitment to environmental protection. Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko invited corporate entities to adopt various forests for afforestation, saying once planted, tree seedlings must be nurtured into maturity. “We invite corporate entities and others to help us raise 25 million seedlings for planting during the National Tree Planting Day but be prepared to make follow-ups for every tree you plant to ensure its success,” he said. READ: High demand for wood fast eating into forest cover The NIC-sponsored event saw 1,000 indigenous tree seedlings planted at Michuki Forest in addition to 4,000 tree seedlings that NIC staff and their partners planted at Kibiko Forest, Kajiado County. NIC’s group managing director John Gachora invited other corporate entities to join the conversation saying Kenyans must reverse environmental degradation by planting trees within their communities, their farms and in public forests. “NIC will donate a tree for every account opened and we shall also engage our customers in creating awareness on the need to restore green cover,” he said. Saying the environmental regeneration campaign should be all inclusive, Mr Ndegwa said NIC Bank would continue investing in projects that improve Kenyans health, education and in improving the environment.