Kenya will soon launch a Sh650 million water desalination plant in Lamu County, Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui said on Thursday. The government has already settled on a contractor, Mr Chelugui said, noting that Roads and Infrastructure secretary James Macharia would officially launch the plant soon. Once operational, the plant will make sea water drinkable, reducing the burden of water shortage that has persisted at the Coast for decades, he said. The minister, who is on a two-day tour of water projects at the Coast, was speaking to journalists at the Coast Water Services offices in Mombasa. “We advertised and now ready to sign the contract for the Sh650 million desalination plant in Lamu. Mr Macharia is expected to launch it soon in Lamu. "We cannot have the sea water and then go without water for days whereas a technology is now in place to have this water used for domestic use,” he said. Europe example He said desalination had taken root in several European countries, citing instances where residents could use small portable containers to desalinate sea water on the go. “With the gadget, you only need water from the sea, put it into your container, it is processed and you drink on the spot as you move,” he said. That is where we want to go as a country,” he said. The minister said the government, jointly with the World Bank, is undertaking a Sh3.5 billion water and sanitation development programme in Mombasa county. “Under the programme, we are improving the pipe work and water connectivity within Mombasa County. New pipes "We are currently sinking new pipes to replace the ageing pipes that have been leaking and leading to water revenue loss estimated at millions of shillings every year,” he said. Currently, non-revenue water loss stands at 50 per cent, which is expected to reduce to 20 per cent once the piping is complete, Mr Chelugui said. “This will also stop water cartels that have been taking advantage of the old pipes to tap into our lines and then sale water to residents. We will make sure that these tricks are brought to an end,” he said.