Parliament Budget committee has been asked to include the Sh1.5 billion compensation awarded late politician Kenneth Matiba for torture and lost business during the Moi era in the revised budget pending MPs approval. The former Kiharu MP, who died Sunday, suffered a stroke in jail. He is yet to receive the Sh945 million awarded to him more than six months ago and the amount has risen to more than Sh1 billion when interests are factored. Leader of Majority Aden Duale demanded that the Budget and Appropriations Committee and that of Justice and Legal Affairs secure the Sh1.5 billion in the Supplementary Budget II tabled in Parliament last week. The committee will in coming days review and make amendments to the Supplementary Budget before approval by MPs and implementation of the changes by the Treasury.“I want the Budget committee to ensure that the money awarded to Mr Matiba by the High Court is in the supplementary budget. Mr Matiba lost his business and health while fighting for our democratic space,” Mr Duale said on Tuesday. “The matter of compensation is before us. It’s a budgetary matter and we must set aside this money and ensure that Mr Matiba paid.” READ: How politics brought down Matiba’s business empire He also asked the House to do something for Mr Charles Rubia, who like Mr Matiba fought the dictatorial Kanu regime until multiparty was restored in Kenya in 1992.Mr Rubia went to court in February seeking Sh325 million from the State for illegal detention in 1990. “There are many court judgments which are still pending for persons who suffered injustices during the struggle. It is time for this House to look at all this and ensure that the money is paid to them or the families that have been left behind,” said Kandara MP Alice Wahome. Justice Isaac Lenaola awarded Mr Matiba 20 per cent of the Sh4, 726,332,042 he had sought for the loss of business, putting the compensation at Sh945.2 million. The court also awarded him Sh15 million in damages and for violations suffered, another Sh18.1 million for medical expenses, pushing the total payout to Sh978.2 million.Mr Matiba had argued that he lost investments worth Sh5 billion following his detention in 1990s. An audit of the estate had revealed that the politician lost more than Sh2 billion in commercial real estate and a further Sh2 billion in privately held shares. Some of his companies were sold to offset loans, among them the prestigious Hillcrest International Schools.