The Attorney General has been locked out from a suit where a Dubai-based firm, contracted to inspect and test the quality of imported petroleum products is seeking to enforce Sh1.5 billion arbitration award. Court of Appeal judges William Ouko, Mohammed Warsame and Agnes Murgor declined to allow the newly appointed government principal legal adviser Paul Kihara to participate in the dispute between the Kenya Bureau of Standards and Geo-Chem Middle East. The AG had applied to be enjoined as a party to the proceedings to demonstrate that the award to Geo-Chem was illegal, contrary to public policy and beyond the scope of reference to arbitration. Mr Kihara, formerly the President of the Court of Appeal before his recent appointment as AG, argued that Sh1.5 billion was taxpayers money and should the court lock him out of the case, the decree might be executed without the government ventilating the public aspect of the dispute. He further told the appellate judges that there would be a real threat of violation of the principles of public finance and the provision of the Public Finance and Management Act. The quality regulator is embroiled in a dispute with Geo Chem after it terminated its multi-billion shillings contract signed in 2009 to inspect and test imported oil products, following the government’s intervention. Kebs had complained over the fees charged by Geo Chem. Aggrieved, Geo-Chem referred the matter to the arbitral tribunal as provided for under the agreement and the arbitrator awarded the company Sh1.5 billion as compensation for breach. The lump sum is less Sh87.9 million awarded to Kebs on its counter-claim. Thereafter, Geo Chem moved to the High Court to adopt the award as a judgement of the court where Justice Fred Ochieng ruled in its favour after dismissing Kebs application to set aside the award. READ: Dubai firm says Kebs and KRA staff colluded to steal Sh300m Kebs lodged a notice to appeal the decision and in the meantime, sought a stay of the execution. And while the application was pending determination before the appellate judges, the AG applied to be joined in the appeal as an interested party. The AG argued that, though he was not a party to the previous proceedings involving Kebs and Geo Chem, he was entitled to defend the public interest. However, the judges were not convinced the AG would be a relevant party to the proceedings in the appeal having opted out in the arbitration and the High Court. “Whereas it is not in doubt that an award of Sh1.5 billion, (less Sh87.9 million) is, by any standard colossal, that alone cannot be the reason for joining the AG in these proceedings this late,” said the judges. They concluded the AG had not convinced them that what he intended to advance would assist the court in determining the dispute. “As a matter of fact, and with respect, we don’t think what the AG wishes to bring forward is any different from the disputing parties in record. He, similarly, has not demonstrated what prejudice he or indeed the country stands to suffer if his intervention is denied,” observed the judges.