Turkana County will benefit from Sh500 million project from Monsanto Fund in partnership with Africare, which is aimed at improving nutrition and access to healthy food for women and young children. The two will provide increased access and availability of diverse and nutrient-rich food to pregnant women, new mothers, infants and young children through Improved Approach to Community-based Nutrition in Turkana (IMPACT) Project in five years. The initiative, which is in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big 4 Agenda, will also improve access to quality health services while sharing information about the prevention and treatment of malnutrition. “We are grateful for the support of the Monsanto Fund in providing us the resources to help the people of Turkana County lead healthier lives,” said Robert L. Mallett, President of Africare. “We believe that everyone needs to be at the table — local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the private sector — to drive real and sustainable relief for the people of Turkana County.” A report released last month by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, showed Turkana is the poorest county with 88 per cent of the locals living below the poverty line compared to 45 per cent nationally. READ: Turkana malnutrition now at five-year high Record malnutrition rates, erratic climate and a disruption of traditional food sources have led the World Health Organisation to designate Turkana County as an Acute Food and Livelihood Crisis area. The IMPACT project is expected to reach 27,000 children who reside within the county’s 7,800 households. “Every family should have access to a balanced meal. However, such access becomes difficult when there is limited availability to healthy and nutritious food options,” said Al Mitchell, Monsanto Fund President. “The Monsanto Fund is committed to globally fighting malnutrition. Our partnership with Africare provides an opportunity for both organisations to collaborate and develop effective and direct solutions for those who reside in the region, he added.