Investor Basil Criticos is reviving his sisal estate that collapsed more than a decade ago, months after the ban on plastic bags that is expected to offer huge opportunities. Mr Criticos, who is a former Taveta MP, has pumped millions of shillings into the sisal industry that collapsed after the government took away his 15,000 acres of land in 2008 where he had planted the cash crop. He says he is optimistic that his business will bounce back even with greater vigour now that the demand for the cash crop is high both in the country and in West African countries. The former MP is harvesting his first crop planted in 2012 in his 500 acres piece of land. “With the banning of plastic bags in the country due to environmental pollution, I am optimistic that the demand for sisal will go high,” he said. The national government banned the use of plastic bags effective August 28 last year. The former MP says he has received a 12-month booking for the crop. He says investors from Nigeria and across West African countries are ready to buy. “The demand is so high , but I am reluctant to accept the bookings since the price of sisal keeps changing, the prices keeps on increasing,” he said. Bookings are a problem, he said, because the buyers “will not allow you to sell it to other potential buyers who might approach you with even higher price.” Before the collapse of the industry in 2008, Mr Criticos successfully ran the sisal business where he established large stores in Kitui, Homa Bay and Kendu Bay. He said the Mwai Kibaki regime took away land from him despite depositing money in instalments to repay the Sh55 million he owed a bank. Mr Criticos says after the industry was closed about 1,200 workers at the facility lost jobs. “But I thank God I am back on my feet again; recovering from such a great loss hasn’t been easy.” He says the 500 acres he has planted with the crop will be expanded to 800 acres. He has 100 employees. Locally, he sells the cash crop to East African Bag and Cordage that he says is the leading buyer of sisal in the country. READ: Sisal earnings hit Sh4bn as exports reduce local supply James Maka, the general manager, said sisal is used to make fabrics and paper. A mature crop can be harvested for more than five years. Besides economic benefits, sisal poles are used as firewood and in construction of houses especially along beaches. Growing and maintaining sisal is easier compared to other crops since it does not require lots of rainfall and spraying. “One only needs to ensure the lanes are clean and well ploughed to get rid of weeds that might deprive the crop of nutrients,” he said. Propagation involves using bulbils from buds or by suckers growing around the base of the plant. But these methods offer no potential for genetic improvement. Sisal leaves are crushed, beaten and brushed away to produce fibres. “We have employees who are tasked with washing away the waste parts of the leaf, the fibre is dried, brushed and packed for export.” Quality of fibre depends on the moisture content, Mr Maka explained. Ropes, twine, paper, cloth, footwear, hats, bags, carpets and dartboards are among the products from sisal while the waste  is used for making fertiliser.