Delegates and other guests arriving for the devolution conference in Kakamega were left waiting for hours at Amalemba Primary School where registration was taking place. The delegates expressed frustration at the commotion at the rarely busy school. Some delegates had arrived as early as 6am but by 11am, registration was yet to start. Police had a hectic time trying to contain the delegates, some of whom had started losing their cool. Ms Nancy Adhiambo, an MCA from Kisumu County said the registration process was frustrating and the officials were too slow. "The Council of Governors (CoG) should have made advance preparation to ensure a smooth registration. "I have been standing on the queue for the last two hours but there is still a lot of confusion but we don't know how long this will last, " said Ms Adhiambo. READ: Ward reps hold key to success of the Lake region economic bloc ALSO READ: Senators have full in-tray in securing, growing devolution   Inconvenience Mr Lawrence Oyando of Khwisero, Kakamega County, said the organisers needed to speed up the process to avoid inconveniencing delegates and other guests. He had arrived at the centre at 6am. "What is happening is a disappointment. The organisers need to sort out the confusion urgently, " he said. Mr Johnson Wandera, a resident, said it was unfortunate that organisers had not put up labels to direct guests leading to the confusion. Roads leading to the venue and the registration centre had heavy traffic as police erected road blocks to do security checks. Tight security Kakamega South police division boss Mr Bernstein Shari said security officers had been detailed to provide law and order at the registration venue. He said: "We are closely working with officials to ensure the registration proceeds without hitches. We are calling on visitors to be patient as officials set up registration equipment. " Security was tight at the Kakamega airstrip. A group of traditional dancers were on standby to entertain arriving guests. A Kenya Air Force place landed at the airstrip at 11am for a test run.    