Njoro County Club plans to use its rich colonial history to market golf tourism. The recreation facility, which was the headquarters of European settlers, has some of the richest colonial heritage in the country. According to the management, they want to take advantage of the commitment made by the government in promoting golf tourism. This was reiterated by the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife Margaret Mwakima who jointly with the Kenya Tourism Board CEO Betty Radier said Kenya must take her position as a golf tourist’s destination. “Golf tourism is among the products Kenya will promote to spur the sector’s growth,” Mwakima told a gathering at Muthaiga Golf Club. Kenya is one of the countries which have a rich golfing tradition since the sporting activity was introduced by European colonialists at the beginning of the 20th century. And like Njoro Country Club, most of the golf courses are located within easy reach of major tourist attractions. Njoro Country Club, which is located about 37 kilometres from Nakuru Town, has several undocumented monumental buildings and structures that can attract visitors. READ: BALALA: Sports tourism has great growth potential in Kenya Together with the Kenya Golfing Tours and Events (KGTE), the club’s management has since last year been trying to identify and document some of these structures and other antique items such as furniture – some dating back to 1902. It was founded by Lord Delamere and Lord Egerton. Some of the structures include, a military prison used during the World War II and bunkers the settlers are said to have built under the main club house which is also a monument, having been built in early 1920s. The bunkers have remained unopened since no one knows what is inside. Writing materials that the club gathered recently have names of golf tournaments that used to take place at the club since 1920s and also contains names of the players. These materials are hardcover books written in pencil. They also show different golf clubs in the country that were hosted at the facility. The club has an abandoned airstrip which was one of the operation bases for British Soldiers during World War II.