South Africa’s hospitality group City Lodge is seeking a tax waiver of more than Sh300 million for its Kenyan operations to recover the cost of building a hotel at Nairobi’s Two Rivers complex. The multinational has applied to the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) for the tax benefit. Firms constructing buildings outside the city of Nairobi and municipalities of Mombasa and Kisumu are entitled to a capital allowance of 150 per cent of the value of the investment that must be at least Sh200 million. The tax incentive is offered to boost projects outside the major towns where there is high concentration of investments including manufacturing plants. “Due to the group’s development of City Lodge Hotel at Two Rivers Mall in Nairobi, an investment deduction tax allowance of 150 per cent of the cost of the building can be claimed on completion and sign-off by the Kenya Revenue Authority,” City Lodge says in a trading update. “This will lead to a zero tax charge for the entire Kenya operation until such time as the allowance has been fully utilised. This will be available for the current financial year if sign-off is achieved by the end of June.” The multinational’s local operations include the new hotel and Nairobi’s Fairview Hotel and Town Lodge, which it acquired from their previous owners. READ: South African hotel City Lodge opens at Two Rivers Mall Zero income tax If granted, the tax benefit will see City Lodge pay zero income tax for years until it recovers 50 per cent more than the amount it spent to put up the hotel. The multinational, which would otherwise pay income tax at the rate of 30 per cent, did not disclose the cost of building the property. The new hotel has partially opened its doors after delays but is expected to have fully-fledged operations in the next few weeks. “After experiencing further delays, the 171-room City Lodge opened its first 40 rooms in January and is expected to be fully operational during the course of April,” the multinational said. The hotel’s facilities include four meeting rooms, a mini-gym and a swimming pool.