Turkana county government and local firm Olsuswa Energy Ltd has signed a deal for geothermal exploration.In the agreement, Olsuswa Energy will explore steam wells in Katilia, Turkana East Sub County. The MoU was signed before area residents and leaders including Governor Josphat Nanok, MPs James Lomenen (Turkana South) and Mohammed Lokiru (Turkana East). The deal involves exploration and development of Barrier Volcanic Complex Geothermal that separates Lake Turkana from Suguta Valley. The Barrier Volcanic Complex comprises four overlapping shield volcanoes, with the youngest, Kakorinya, located over the axis of the East African Rift. Governor Nanok said the decision to sign the MoU before the public, with the participation of elected leaders was aimed at promoting popular participation and ensuring the process and agreement is owned by all parties and players. “It’s my hope that the spirit and letter of the agreement will be kept in the duration it covers and that the expectation of all parties will be met,” the county boss said. Mr Lomenen said the project will create job opportunities for area residents, especially the youth, as well as boost economic growth in the remote region of the county. The legislator said unity among leaders, irrespective of their political affiliation, is a driving force for development. “Geothermal energy will help reduce energy costs and provide clean, green and affordable electricity in line with Kenya’s Vision 2030,” Mr Lomenen said. READ: Kanu era tycoon secures cash for Turkana energy unit Katilia and neighbouring centres such as Kapedo, Napeitom and Kamuge along the border of Turkana and Baringo counties have been hit by insecurity resulting from frequent banditry attacks and cattle theft. This spate of attacks have been linked to retarded development in the area. The residents are therefore banking on the electricity project to open up the area to development and economically empower the residents. Geothermal power currently produced in the country, according to Geothermal Development Company, is used to heat greenhouses to accelerate growth of horticultural production, including vegetables. Crops under geothermal-heated greenhouses are pesticide-free because the heat prevents fungi growth. It is also used to heat fishponds.GDC’s plans to turn geothermal belts into manufacturing and food production hubs.