City Hall has acquired two storm water flushing machines to deal with floods when heavy rains pound Nairobi. City residents have been experiencing problems wading through floods whenever heavy rains occur. Storm water always wreak havoc in various estates in the county. Even the CBD is not spared the damage. The estates that are usually adversely affected include Ruai, Njiru, South C, Kawangware, Runda and Donholm. Others are Ridgeways, Thome, Langata, Kibra, South B, Umoja, Kayole, Karen, Zimmerman, Kahawa West, Githurai, Mathare, and Pioneer Estate. The flushing machine, which was presented to the county government by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia, will help in clearing drainage systems across the capital city to allow free flow of water during heavy rains. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said the machines would speed up work on drainage system which has been frequently been blamed for the flash floods in different parts of the county. “These machines will work faster as no manual labour will be required and this will go a long way in addressing the problem of our clogged drainage as the country is still experiencing heavy rains,” said Sonko. The equipment were donated as part of the World Bank-funded Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project (NAMSIP), covering Machakos, Kajiado and Kiambu counties. READ: Work together to solve traffic jams, Uhuru tells Sonko and Macharia The project is estimated to be funded to the tune of Sh500 million with Nairobi County allocated 75 per cent of the finances. Last month, Roads and Infrastructure executive Mohamed Dagane said the city had allocated Sh32 million for improvement of drainage system in the county. He said the county government had been mapping flood-prone areas. He added that the City Hall with support from the national government planned to construct major outfalls and rehabilitate drainage systems across the city. Roads that he said have been earmarked for development are Catherine Ndereba Road, Lang’ata South Road, Kayole Spine Road, Popo Road, Mai Mahiu Road, Kawangware box culverts along Macharia Road, Kawangware 46-Muslim Primary School Road, and Jonathan Ng’eno Road. “Every rainy season, the county government has been mapping specific flood-prone areas identified over the years. To mitigate impacts of flooding, it has developed a detailed program to address floods,” said Dagane at the time.