Daystar University has been closed indefinitely after days of unrest in its two campuses. All the students must vacate the school premises by midday Thursday. The closure followed the university's senate sitting on April 11, according to a notice from the institution. “The senate consequently asks both students and staff to vacate both Nairobi and Athi River campuses by the indicated time.” Designated desk The university urged international students residing in Athi River Campus to also vacate and report to a designated desk in Nairobi by 2pm. On Wednesday night, the university's Nairobi campus turned chaotic on Wednesday night after police stormed and lobbed teargas at students during their meeting with the institute’s senate to solve their grievances. As the events of the night unfolded, police lobbed tear gas to quell unrest at some students at the Nairobi campus. This took place as a group of students met on the seventh floor of the DAC Building to discuss issues that have seen learners boycott classes and turn against the management. Speaking to NTV, the students' body president Alloys Otieno said the senate had initially invited their association to discuss the demands they had tabled. “It is unfortunate that we were sitting in for a dialogue with the senate to try and find a way on how to lift the suspensions and find a way forward for the university. "A few individuals who are outsiders and are unhappy with this sitting want the forensic report that we had asked not to come out,” said Otieno. Kicked out He added that as the meeting was going on, police came in and vandalised the building and kicked them of the campus. “They broke doors and teargassed us. They ordered us to surrender by lifting our hands and demanded that we immediately vacate the premises,” he said. A student, Chris Munene, added that the acting VC could not produce the report because it accuses three senior staff members the students want fired of embezzling funds. Complaints from the students range from poor standards in terms of courses offered and restrictions in transfer of credits, as well as facilities. On Monday, unidentified men were arrested at the campus after trying to evict a student leader. A video shared on social media showed about five men manhandling a student before a heated argument ensues. The learners, who requested anonymity, said their investigations found that one of the officials hired about 10 bouncers to evict all student leaders from the school on grounds that they incite students against the management. A post shared on the Daystar University Twitter page on Tuesday showed that a meeting was in fact scheduled to discuss a forensic report and audit report.