Kisumu County plans to construct a Sh800 million sewage treatment plant as it seeks to improve water and sanitation services. The move is expected to ease the burden on the two existing amenities, which manage 16 per cent of the households connected to the public sewerage. The facility to be built at Otonglo will be done by the Lake Victoria South Water Services Board (LVSWSB). With a population of about 600,000 people, LVSWSB Chief Manager Technical Services Sammy Mburu raised concerns that lack of a treatment plant could be a disaster in the waiting as most residents deposit raw sewage in Lake Victoria. “A lot of water is currently being released into Lake Victoria without treatment as the two existing plants can only treat 17,800 cubic metres per day against over 80,000 cubic metres produced per day,” said Mr Mburu. The low sewerage connection represents a sharp contrast as the service provider, Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company (Kiwasco) provides water to about 70 per cent of the residents. The Kisat mechanised convention has a capacity of treating 5,000 to 6,000 cubic metres of waste per day while the Nyalenda Ponds and Pumping Station handles the bulk of discharge generated. Mr Mburu noted that the operations of Kisat plant that is situated next to River Kisat, which drains into Lake Victoria, has been overstretched. “The facility, which was originally constructed in 1958 was designed to handle a capacity of 2,270 cubic metres per day before being rehabilitated,” he said. He, however, indicated that the financial support of Sh70 billion loans and grant signed with three European agencies will help improve the distribution of water and sanitation programmes to be implemented over the next five years. READ: Sh22bn loan for water projects in Mombasa, Kisumu counties The agreement signed by Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich was funded by French Development Agency (AFD) to the tune of Sh20 billion, European Investment Bank (Sh35 billion) and Sh10 billion from the government of Kenya. Kiwasco technical manager Moses Jura said they plan to significantly improve access to safe drinking water to over 90 per cent of residents and waste water connections of between 40-60 per cent by 2022. At the moment, LVSWSB resident engineer Phelix Okuta said the board is in the process of drafting a water resources master plan for the county and sewerage design for Kisumu City. The process will determine the design and components of the new sewerage facility and the rehabilitation of existing ones to make them cope with the increased output. “We intend to start conducting the Environmental Impact Assessment this month before rolling consultancy services in May,” Mr Okuta said.