An application by PrideInn Hotels and Investments Ltd seeking a temporary injunction restraining Tropicana Hotels Ltd from calling up for payment or enforcing a bank guarantee for Sh90 million failed to proceed for hearing on Wednesday. The application had been listed for hearing before Justice Patrick Otieno but it was mentioned before another court as he was not sitting. Justice Njoki Mwangi on Wednesday extended interim orders which had initially been issued maintaining the status quo between parties. The hotel which had lost an appeal against an order of liquidation is seeking for the order pending hearing and determination of the application. PrideInn Hotels and Investments Ltd had been placed into liquidation and subsequently put under receivership by Justice Patrick Otieno for its inability to pay Sh69.3 million debt prompting it to appeal against the decision. Justice Otieno had allowed the winding up petition filed by Tropicana Hotels Ltd saying the debt was not genuinely disputed. The Court of Appeal dismissed its appeal but suspended the order of liquidation for a period of 30 days to enable it make full payments of all the money due, failure to which the orders of the court shall stand final. According to PrideInn, despite the 30 days suspension of the liquidation order, Tropicana Hotels, through its lawyer in a letter dated March 22, demanded payment of Sh90 million under the guarantee issued by a bank to be paid on or before March 29. READ: PrideInn seeks order to stop demands over Sh90m debt Illegal and contemptuous PrideInn argues that the demand by Tropicana Hotels Ltd is illegal and contemptuous noting that the liquidation order has been suspended. In his replying affidavit, Mr Kamal Bhatt, a director and shareholder of Tropicana Hotels Ltd said through the letter by its (Tropicana) advocates, it did not threaten to wind up PrideInn as alleged but demanded for the payment of Sh90 million from the guarantor. Mr Bhatt said they have no capacity to liquidate PrideInn and that the court appointed the official receiver as an interim liquidator to take charge and the running of the affairs of the hotel chain (PrideInn). “Liquidation of the debtor will commence on April 21 unless all sums due to Tropicana Hotels Ltd, shall have been paid in full before that date,” said Mr Bhatt. READ: PrideInn Hotels put under liquidation over Sh69m debt Mr Bhatt terms the application by PrideInn as incompetent and an abuse of the process of the court and that the guarantee issued by a bank is irrevocable. “The irrevocable guarantee provided, with the express agreement of the debtor, that the guarantee for Sh90 million does not affect the petitioner’s right to pursue the debtor for any sums in excess,” said Mr Bhatt. He added that the Court of appeal stayed (suspended) the liquidation order but did not stay the irrevocable bank guarantee. Appellate Judges Alnashir Visram and Martha Koome dismissed the appeal by PrideInn saying it lacked merit while their colleague Justice Wanjiru Karanja dissented. The application will be heard on Wednesday next week.