Bishop Margaret Wanjiru and her son, former MP Stephen Kariuki, risk losing their property through an auctioneer’s hammer. This is after the former MP failed to compensate the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company, the complainant, for a car he damaged in an road accident four years ago. The company has obtained a court order allowing them to attach property belong to the two so as to recover Sh534,000, which Mr Kariuki ought to have paid. The water company has also gone ahead to hire services of an auctioneering firm, Gladson Auctioneers Limited, after efforts to recover the money from Mr Kariuki yielded nothing. And now, the auctioneers want to proceed and raid a company associated with the two and Mr Kariuki’s residence at Kugeria Estate in Kiambu to cart away property that includes cars and household goods. The accident, which occurred on February 16, 2014, involved a car belonging to the water company and another that was being driven by the then Mathare MP at the time of the accident. An assessment done by Prudent Loss Assessors, an investigating, loss adjusters, risk managers and process servers firm, dated September 15, 2015, faulted Mr Kariuki for the accident, and placed a damage of Sh500,000. The assessment report was sent to African Merchant Insurance Company, which is the firm that had insured the water company’s car. Probe ownership The company had been assigned the task of investigating and establishing the ownership, physical address and financial status of the third party to facilitate the recovery of the outlay. “Upon receipt of you instructions, together with enclosure for relevant, we move to the field and confirmed that the third party vehicle reg. number KAT 019Z, and at the time of the subject accident, the accident was being driven by one Stephen N. Kariuki, according to police records,” reads the assessment report in part. After efforts to recover the money hit a snag, the plaintiff moved to court, where a decree was passed requiring Mr Kariuki and Zirock Holdings Limited, which is associated with the former MP and her mother, to pay Sh476,726. Zirock Holdings Limited and Mr Kariuki have been listed as first and second respondents respectively. Not honoured The decree was, however, not honoured by the respondent, forcing the plaintiff, through Christine Oraro and Co. Advocates, to return to court, and obtained a warrant of attachable mover property belonging to them in order recover the money and interests, all amounting to Sh533, 598. The property to be attached are four motor vehicles including a Prado that is used by Ms Wanjiru, all which are expected to fetch two million shillings, two pool tables and chairs, household goods that include sofa set, TV sets, carpets and fridges that will be carted away from their Runda Annex and Kugeria Estate residences. Early Tuesday morning, the auctioneers visited the Kugeria Estate residence, but did not cart away any property after Ms Wanjiru promised to have the money paid through Investor Insurance Company, which later informed them that it cannot pay the claims since Mr Kariuki had breached the contract they had with him. The auctioneers are now planning to execute the orders the plaintiff obtained in court, by raiding the premises to take away the properties.