Airport hotels rarely blip on many travellers’ radars. But there are exceptions, of which the newly opened Four Points by Sheraton Nairobi Airport is one. From the outside, the Four Points looks like just a modern building, but venture inside and it is a cosy, welcoming hotel. Take, for instance, the distinct vertical garden, which starts from the ground floor and winds all the way up to the hotel’s fifth floor, bringing with it a calming serenity, in contract to the chaos of the airport. It is perhaps most enjoyed from the spacious business lounge characterised by high ceilings and large windows, and where it sits in contrast to the beautiful golden light installations. In any of the 172 guestrooms, there is a sense of thought that has gone into the design. From functional desks for working at, to large windows letting in abundant light which make you feel at ease and comfortable. Each room has large-screen TV’s and power showers to help soak off the weary traveller’s journey. And if it’s something a little more indulgent you want, then a bathtub overlooking the National Park is just the thing in the Executive Suite —the perfect backdrop to watch a herd of giraffes grazing with a glass of wine in hand. I am told that this room has hosted presidents of countries and companies, and so, if you are in Nairobi, this is perhaps the ideal spot to spend a night and beat rush hour traffic before your next flight. Naturally, the best of the best is saved for the rooftop. The Tazama, rooftop and grill which overlooks the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) runway on one side and very well positioned pool perching above the National Park on the other. A distinct piece by Kenyan graffiti artist Bankslave brings vibrancy to the space. It is a representation of everything distinct about Nairobi from matatus to giraffes and skyscrapers. A traveller’s snapshot to our everyday living. At the bar, you can find a signature craft beer called Aeropils, created especially for the hotel for their Best Brews programme. On nights out consider their offer of six beers and chicken wings at Sh2,000 just the thing. Downstairs, the lobby bar has three sitting areas spread across the indoors and outdoors. It is inviting with several black and white photos showing various aspects of Kenya, from hot air balloons to wildlife and an aerial shot of Nairobi from days gone by. When you pop in for coffee in the morning, you might wonder why it is called a bar when everything hints at a cafe, but come evening, the place transforms with the simple flip of a cupboard to reveal every tipple you may wish to order. The beautifully furnished main restaurant Marketplace serves hearty, wholesome fare 24 hours a day (because travellers come and go at all times) and has well-manicured garden seating which can be viewed from some of the hotel’s rooms. If you’re looking to host a meeting, event or party, consider any of their multi-functional spaces which can be partitioned to suit any need— intimate or large. All rooms of course come with state-of-the-art conferencing facilities and the added advantage of an outdoor space. And when the day is done, and the work is complete there’s just one thing left to do. Nourish the aching body at the Olakira Spa. A rebooting for the soul ready to start a fresh.