While opening an eye and dental clinic at the Tenwek Mission Hospital in Bomet a week ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a directive to the Ministry of Health officials led by the Cabinet Secretary to construct four eye and dental clinics in Eldoret, Nyeri, Nairobi and Mombasa by next year. The directive is much welcome, given the country’s current oral health indicators which do not paint a rosy picture of the state of oral health. This is a step in the right direction. The country’s first ever comprehensive National Oral Health Survey (NOHS) released in 2015 shows a myriad of unmet oral health-related treatment needs for children and adults. Health seeking behaviour of the general population was also found to be poor while the quality of life was adversely affected by oral diseases/conditions. It is noteworthy that tooth decay, has a prevalence of 34.3 per cent among Kenyan adults and 46.3 per cent among children. Despite this high prevalence, a negligible proportion of Kenyans seek dental treatment and the majority do so only when there is pain and discomfort. Of note is that oral health is now being integrated in holistic health approaches and recognized as being associated with various non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cancer and diabetes. According to the WHO manual on Promoting Oral Health in Africa 2016, oral health should be tackled at a primary health care level. We welcome this directive for a number of reasons. Firstly, it could be an indication that the government is ready and willing to give oral health more visibility and perhaps more prominence within the Universal Health Coverage plan. READ: Poor dental hygiene raises cancer, heart disease risk The government has set aside Sh300 million for the construction of each of the four units, a sign that it intends to increase funding to address the otherwise grossly underfunded oral health care services. To demonstrate this, the Ministry of Health’s department of oral health in the 2014/2015 financial year received an operational budget of Sh392,400, a gross underestimate of the country’s needs considering that oral health care is capital and labour intensive. Secondly, it is a good example for county governments to emulate. The NOHS 2015 shows that a greater proportion of oral health care providers work in the urban centres, making oral health care services difficult to access for majority of Kenyans residing in the rural areas. Further, a scrutiny at the provision and distribution of dental equipment in the public health facilities indicate that most are not functional while the supply of dental materials is erratic. The president’s directive could, therefore, serve as cue for the country’s 47 governors to address this by ensuring that each public health facility has a dental clinic that can address dental health needs of the local population. Considering that health is now a devolved function, it is expected that the county governments will take up this challenge. Additionally, opening up of more dental clinics will also likely bring to the fore the issue of acute shortage of dentists in the country. Today, a Kenyan dentist treats six times more patients against the WHO’s recommended ratio of 1: 7,000. The country has about 1,000 dentists meaning that there is one dentist for every 42,000 patients. Wanja Mwangi, Corporate Affairs Director, Africa, The Wrigley Company EA Ltd.