Mtongwe ferry services have resumed as tourists and local visitors flock to Mombasa for the Christmas festivities. Most tourists visiting Kenya's tourism hub use the ferry to cross over to Diani in Kwale County to enjoy their holidays during the hectic tourism high season that often sees congestion on Likoni channel. Kenya Ferry Services said it had resumed Mtongwe service as they assured the users of a continuous operation. The withdrawal of the ferry at the Mtongwe channel more than two months ago forced residents to use the Likoni channel leading to further congestion. “As Mtongwe residents we are relieved that the ferry services have resumed on this route. We can now access Mombasa island via the Mtongwe channel and not through Likoni which was far,” Ismail Juma a Mtongwe resident said. On Monday, Mombasa county security committee led by its chairman Evans Achoki, county police commander Johnstone Ipara, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko and Likoni OCPD Benjamin Rotich, visited the Mtongwe ferry crossing to assess the security situation. The team assured the residents that security has been beefed up for the ferry users. The Likoni channel is key in connecting the country to Tanzania through the Lunga Lunga highway. The government also plans to install cable cars at the crossway at a cost of Sh5 billion and build the second phase of Sh30 billion Dongo Kundu bypass to connect South Coast and North Coast. The cable express car is expected to be a state-of-the-art gondola car system. The cable cars will ease traffic congestion, address regular ferry breakdowns and boost tourism. Ferries take about 10 minutes to move passengers across the channel, but delays of up to 40 minutes have been reported in the past due to breakdowns. The cars will work for seven days of the week, crossing the channel in less than three minutes. The express link will have 22 cable cars which will carry 38 passengers per cabin. It will carry 11,000 commuters per hour in both directions which will be a total of 180,000 people a day. Currently at least 300, 000 people and 6, 000 vehicles use the channel daily. Hotels in Mombasa are enjoying good tidings with most hospitality establishments enjoying 80 per cent bed occupancy.