The Postal Corporation of Kenya (PCK) has become the latest State firm to attract the attention of law enforcement agencies after last month’s launch of investigations into alleged fraud and misappropriation of funds by its management. Details of the looming crackdown are contained in a letter that Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti wrote to the corporation’s management describing the nature of investigations he was about to launch. In the letter dated November 21 and addressed to Postmaster-General Dan Kagwe, Mr Kinoti says that he planned to lead a team of detectives to establish how the ailing parastatal awarded tenders in the past three years – an action that has in recent months seen top managers of State corporations charged in court. Investigations into the activities of the struggling State corporation, which reported a Sh1.5 billion loss in the financial year ended June 2017, also seek to establish the total amount Mr Kagwe has been paid in travel allowances from 2016 to date. Mr Kagwe is also required to submit a list of the corporation’s leased properties, their locations and contracts signed when they were leased. A copy of the letter seen by the Business Daily also requires the corporation to submit a list of tender documents it has signed beginning 2016 to date and a list of all ICT projects it is undertaking. Details of the information required for purposes of the investigation include names of contractors who have won tenders and the payroll of employees for the last three years.“The documents should be clearly marked and labelled. Your co-operation will highly be appreciated,” Mr Kinoti says. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations, which is currently investigating possible loss of Sh50 billion at the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), also wants the PCK to submit a list of travel vouchers that Mr Kagwe used during his foreign trips and imprests paid to the corporation’s acting chairperson, Pauline Muthigani, during her foreign trips. Allowances paid to board members for every sitting and the mode of payment used are also under probe. Mr Kinoti’s decision to investigate the ailing State corporation came a few days after he sent a team of investigators to look into possible loss of billions of shillings at the NHIF. Senior NHIF officials have since been charged with a range of crimes, including loss of capitation funds that the National Treasury paid the corporation for group life cover and last expense for civil servants, National Youth Service, Kenya Prisons Service and the National Police Service. Suspended NHIF chief executive Geoffrey Mwangi and finance director Wilbert Kurgat were on Monday charged with the offence of attempting to frustrate investigations into irregular award of a Sh1.1 billion tender for the provision of integrated revenue collection services. Mr Kinoti has described the syndicate as the cruelest graft he has ever “ever encountered", adding that the culprits will be hunted and arraigned in court.