President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked the Judiciary not to protect impunity in the fight against corruption. Addressing the nation during celebrations of the 55th Jamhuri (Independence) Day at Nyayo stadium in Nairobi on Wednesday, President Kenyatta decried the courts' issuance of “ridiculous" bail terms to corruption suspects. “Kenyan spirits are dampened when we witness suspects released on ridiculously low bail terms, interference in legislative processes, and the use of the court process to delay justice. "All arms of government must work together to ensure our nation gets rid of this menace,” he said. His comments came days after senior officials and ex-officials of the Kenya Pipeline Company, the National Cereals and Produce Board and the National Hospital Insurance Fund were freed on bonds and bails after denying various charges. “Through the efforts of our investigative agencies and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, individuals who may have thought they were untouchable, are now facing the full force of the law. "These individuals deserve fair trials but nothing more.  I am again calling for the Judiciary to ensure that its procedures are not used to protect impunity,” President Kenyatta said. Media, civil society support The president also asked corruption whistle-blowers to enlist the support of the media and civil society in unearthing graft cases should the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission fail to do so. “And to you, the people of Kenya listening to my address today, please, it is time for you to stop watching from the sidelines.  It is time for you to become active participants in this war, it is time for you to say enough is enough, be it to a policeman or a governor, a clerk or a Cabinet Secretary, a judge or a politician,” the president told Kenyans. He asked Kenyans not to tire of doing the right thing, asking them to report corruption incidents to their local directorate of criminal investigations office, or any nearest Ethics and Anti-Corruption Office. “If they don’t listen, give the information to the media and to civil society actors to unmask these people.  Do not tire of doing the right thing,” he said. He also lauded efforts to return to Kenya funds stolen by corrupt individuals and stashed in other countries. “There is almost nowhere left for them to hide the ill-gotten wealth robbed from Kenyans. Once proven it is stolen money, the agreements provide for the assets to be returned to the Kenya government,” he said. He announced an anti-corruption conference organised by stakeholders from the private sector, religious leaders and civil society, to be held in January 2019, and which he said he will attend. Education On education, he directed local administrators to keep track of pupils transitioning to secondary schools in the coming year saying they will be held responsible should they fail enforcing full compliance of the law. “Following the conclusion of the selection of Form One students for 2019, I will hold education officials, Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs accountable for enforcing full compliance of this policy,” he warned. “Each of them must keep track of learners who sat for this year’s KCPE within their respective jurisdictions and ensure that all of them report to secondary schools.”