Top managers involved in corruption scandals at the Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC), the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), and the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) will be prosecuted by end of this week, the public prosecutor has said. Noordin Haji, Director of Public Prosecutions, told Parliament that investigations being undertaken by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) into the multi-billion shillings rip-offs are nearing completion. The DCI is investigating the financial status of KPC following reports of oil spillage and pilferage worth Sh2 billion. At the NHIF, the DCI is probing allegations of corruption and threats to auditors sent to scrutinise books of accounts to ascertain whether taxpayers’ money was paid in fictitious hospital capitation claims. The DCI has already charged NHIF chief executive Geoffrey Mwangi and financial director Wilbert Kurgat for obstructing investigators. The sleuths have also camped at the NCPB to investigate top managers alleged to have colluded with traders or merchants who benefited from the Sh1.9 billion maize purchase scam. The money was paid to at least 10 traders leaving out more than 3,500 farmers who were owed at least Sh4 billion for supply of the produce to the board since December 2017. “The next batch of prosecution into the NCPB maize scandal is coming by end of this week. We are going to prosecute all individuals linked to the NHIF and KPC scandals too,” Mr Haji told the Senate Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Mr Haji said the first batch of NCPB maize scandal suspects, including Agriculture Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe have been prosecuted. “We go to court and the Judiciary is handling many other cases. I am pleased to announce that the Chief Justice (CJ) is working to increase the number of magistrates to expedite corruption cases. “The CJ has indicated that the Judiciary will be using digitised means instead of hand writing of proceedings for corruption cases to help expedite the cases,” he said. Mr Haji appeared before the committee alongside AG Paul Kihara, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Assets Recovery Authority Director Muthoni Kimani and EACC Assistant Director for Legal Affairs David Kaboro over Multi-Agency Team’s progress on the war on graft.