President Uhuru Kenyatta today presided over the opening of the new regional headquarters for World Vision, a Christian non-governmental organisation that has operated in Kenya since 1974. The headquarters in Karen, Nairobi, will serve as the nerve centre for the World Vision’s operations in the wider Eastern Africa region including Ethiopia and Eritrea. President Kenyatta said he was pleased to officiate at the ceremony because he appreciates the role World Vision plays in supporting vulnerable groups in society especially children. 6,000 employees While congratulating World Vision for its long list of successes, the Head of State named some of the prominent Kenyans who have benefited directly from the organisation's interventions among them Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Jackson Ole Sapit, Supreme Court Judge Justice Isaac Lenaola, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko and former MP Lina Jebii Kilimo among others. President Kenyatta thanked the organisation, which has more than 6,000 employees in the region, for choosing Kenya to be its regional hub. “That you have chosen Kenya for your new regional headquarters is proof of the strength of our partnership, and of your commitment to the children of the region. For our part, we thank you for your years of labour, and we welcome this new commitment,” said President Kenyatta. Work permits Speaking after officially opening the office complex, President Kenyatta said individuals coming to work with reputable organisations like World Vision who are genuinely in the business of working for Kenyans will not have difficulty getting work permits. The Head of State said that the issuance of work permits has been made stringent after the government discovered that unscrupulous people were abusing the system and taking advantage of Kenya's hospitality. “We welcome visitors who are coming in to improve life for Kenyans,” said the President as he assured that work permits for World Vision staff will not be subject to undue delays even as he maintained that the government will continue applying strict measures in the issuance and renewal of work permits.