Electoral agency chairman Wafula Chebukati has warned that delays by the Treasury in releasing funds to the commission will affect three by-elections set for August 17. Mr Chebukati told the National Assembly's Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) that the Treasury had not released funds to facilitate operations since April. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) is preparing to conduct parliamentary and county assembly by-elections in Baringo South Constituency as well as in Kadem and Bobasi Chache wards in Migori and Kisii counties respectively. “The commission has experienced constraints in accessing the Exchequer from the National Treasury since April 2018,” Mr Chebukati said. He noted the commission’s correspondence and visitations to the Treasury have not borne favourable response. “For example, fully processed payments up to internet banking stage in IFMIS amounting to Sh1.4 billion was not funded. This means the secretariat will be engaged in a tedious process of reversing the payments, a process that will require additional budgetary allocation in 2018/2019,” he said. The IEBC boss, who was accompanied by commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye, asked the committee chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo to intervene. READ: IEBC crippled as three more commissioners step down The IEBC suffered a blow in mid-April following the resignation of commissioners Consolata Maina, Paul Kurgat and Margret Mwachanya, denying the agency a quorum for key decisions. Attorney-General Kihara Kariuki is yet to offer his opinion on the quorum matter, saying he is awaiting the outcome of a court case by activist Okiya Omtatah on the same. “The quorum matter notwithstanding, the commission’s structures are very much intact, meaning we are good to go as far as handling the by-elections is concerned,” Mr Chebukati said. Mr Omtatah in April sought orders against Parliament or the AG compelling the remaining three to leave before a special internal audit of the Sh60 billion allocated to the commission is finalised.He said the resignation of three IEBC commissioners was meant to frustrate the special audit. Mr Guliye told the JLAC it was improper for anyone to suggest that they resign to pave the way for appointment of a new team at the electoral body. “The decision by other commissioners to resign should not be used as a basis for calling for our resignation. Each one of us individually applied for the job, was vetted and sworn into office individually,” he said.