The Kakamega County Water and Sanitation Company is piloting installation of smart meters at a cost of Sh190.4 million as it eyes more revenues from billing clients. After installation of the devices, the firm says it will redeploy meter readers to perform other duties since the gadgets will automatically transmit data to a system for billing clients. Managing director, Fredrick Atwa, said the firm has 23,800 active connections in the region and that each of the smart meters will cost Sh8,000. The pilot phase of the project will run for three months with 100 smart meters being installed to monitor efficiency and impact on revenue collection before a full rollout of the project. Mr Atwa is optimistic that installation of the devices will improve monthly revenue collection from Sh19 million to Sh25 million. With changes, the firm’s annual revenue of Sh 253.8 million is expected to increase to Sh300 million. “The smart meters will provide a boost to revenue collection since we will be able to accurately determine how much water each consumer has used when billing for the month. The gadgets will minimise complaints related to incorrect billing,” Mr Atwa said. The water company covers Kakamega, Shitoli, Tindinyo, Mumias, Shinyalu, Murhanda, Butere, Malava, Navakholo and Kipkaren/Lumakanda. The company said it loses 306,439 cubic meters at the production level and another 1.7 million cubic meters during distribution to customers. Board chairman John Wamakonjio said the county government was working with development partners to improve water infrastructure in the region. “As a county government, we have taken the responsibility to invest in infrastructure to improve water supply and ensure effective oversight in delivery of services to consumers,” Mr Wamakonjio said. The USAID-funded Kenya Integrated Water and Sanitation Hygiene (KIWASH) has designed a five-year project targeting improvement of services to 1 million residents. READ: Chinese firms fight for Sh1.3bn Kenya Power meters contract