Former US President Barack Obama’s visit to the Lake Region on Monday has seen a boost to the area's hospitality and business sector. A week before his arrival into the country, top hotels in Kisumu were already flooded with international visitors. Acacia Premium Hotel, Sovereign Hotel, Imperial Hotel Imperial Express and Eco Lodge are some of the facilities whose managers said are benefitting from the trip. According Kisumu County Executive Committee Tourism, Culture, Arts and Sports, Achie Alai, flights coming into Kisumu International Airport were fully booked. “As from Friday last week most flights coming into Kisumu International Airport were booked. Considering this is a high profile visit, most of the high end hotels we have in Kisumu are booked,” said Ms Alai. Western Kenya Hospitality Leaders Association chairman, Robinson Anyal, said President Obama’s visit will give a major boost to the tourism sector in Kisumu and Siaya Counties. “We have recorded high number of international tourists over the weekend in the selected hotels in Kisumu. The organisers of the event had made arrangements for their stay here,” said Mr Anyal. He added that the event has opened up the Lake Region's tourism sector to the international market. All roads lead to K’Ogelo Pauline Jones, a tourist from Germany, said she had to visit Hippo Point in Kisumu and other tourist sites before heading to K’Ogelo. “It feels great to be here. To visit the land associated with the ancestral heritage of President Obama. It is amazing that he comes back to his roots. I think people are proud of him that he came back,” said Ms Jones.     Siaya County was not behind considering Mr Obama was to officiate the inauguration of the Sauti Kuu Sports and Vocation Centre which is ran by Dr Auma’s Sauti Kuu Foundation. Some of the hotels fully booked with guests include White House Resort, Distinction Garden Resorts, Pride Hotel, Juliana Country Resort, Lake View Resort Crystal Charlotte and other hotels. “For the past two weeks guests have been streaming in. Our hotels in the county are fully booked. We are working closely with the Kenya Tourism Board to showcase and market the new tourist attractions site in the county,” said Siaya County Director for Tourism, Culture, Arts and Sports Elizabeth Oduor. She was optimistic that those coming to Siaya would return to their homes with more knowledge about the Luo people, customs and their history. “Each year we celebrate our identity as a community through the annual Got Ramogi Festival which displays the rich Luo culture. Therefore, President Obama’s visit is quite timely for guests to understand the history of the Luo community,” she explained. Nicholas Rajula, who owns White House Resort (former Kogelo Village Resort) said: “We thank God that our son will be coming back home. This will be a good business opportunity. I am looking forward to partner with investor to expend the business to accommodate more visitor planning to come in K’Ogelo in future.” Merchandise traders Traders and artists weren't left behind with many cashing in by selling caps, calendars, tags, t-shirts, shirts and other items bearing Mr Obama's image.     For artist Joachim Ndalo, the visit is a blessing as he cashes on his drawings of the former US president among other famous world leaders. “I have three categories of paints ranging from extra-large, medium and small portraits with different cost. Obviously the status in the society also determines the cost of his images,” he said. John Otieno, trader in K’Ogelo said the business is picking up with excitement of Mr Obama's arrival. "Many people are buying the t-shirts, calendars and tags. We are selling T-shirt at rates of sh800 to sh1000," said Mr Otieno.