The Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) has completed the migration of its manual procurement to the new Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) platform. The SRM solution will offer an online e-procurement platform through which KPC will automate its entire procurement process. The Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) will accelerate the procure-to-pay processes by automating, simplifying, and centralizing the procure-to-pay process flow. The project began late last year following the award of the contract to SAP (East Africa), a 45-year old German multinational software corporation that makes enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations. KPC managing director Joe Sang said that the company hopes to achieve the automation of its procurement processes with the completion of the project. “The new platform will put the KPC at par with its peers who are already using the e-procurement platform which has allowed their Finance and Procurement departments to streamline their processes to promote competition, transparency, accountability and promote public confidence in line with Article 227 of the Constitution 2010,” said Sang. SRM will also allow for elimination of paperwork, reduction in the time between need recognition and the release and receipt of an order, improve communication both within the company and with suppliers and lastly lower overhead costs in the purchasing area. KPC has carried out and will continue to carry out trainings for both old and new suppliers countrywide to sensitize them on KPC’s current business processes and change in procedure. “We want all our suppliers to walk with us as we open a new chapter in the way we procure our goods and services so that Kenyans can get value for money. We are basically creating a common avenue for all Kenyans to access business opportunities with KPC,” Sang told suppliers in a recent e-procurement awareness forum in Nairobi. Migration to the new e-procurement platform will also enable KPC to be in full compliance with the Executive Order from His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta directing that all public procurement be conducted via an electronic platform in readiness for the integration to the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) by 1st January, 2019.