The Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) will spend Sh300 million to rehabilitate roads damaged by floods in Tana River, county director Henry Indeche has said. Mr Indeche said almost 70 per cent of the rural road network was damaged by the floods earlier this year, with some of the roads still flooded to date. He was speaking at a National Government Service Delivery Coordination Committee in the county on Thursday. He said that among the affected roads was the Boji-Masalani Bridge that connects Tana River with Garissa County, which was still flooded. “The estimated cost of repair to the road network under Kerra to motorable standards after the rain stops is approximately Sh300 million,” he told the committee chaired by County Commissioner Oning’oi ole Sosio. He told the committee that the authority spent about Sh147.9 million to rehabilitate roads in the county last financial year. He said the State corporation also spent Sh88.2 million to maintain and improve 1021.5 kilometres of roads across the county using the Road Maintenance Levy Fund (RMLF),adding that each of county’s constituencies had received Sh29.4 million from the RMLF. Equalisation fund The county also spent Sh59.7 million from the Equalisation Fund to upgrade the road leading to the Abanganda Technical Training Institute from the Mombasa-Garissa Highway and the Hamres-Sala-Madogo road to all weather status. The director said another Sh65 million will be spent on the Tula Box Culvert and the Hirimani-Elneka Road in Bura constituency, noting that the procurement process for the two projects had started. There are also plans to upgrade to bitumen standards the road connecting Hola Town with Mutomo in Kitui County through Wayu and Waldena. The construction of this road will shorten the journey from Hola to Nairobi by more than 200 kilometres. Tana River has 90 kilometres of Class A roads, 300 kilometres of Class B roads while Classes C, D and E roads account for a total of 700.6 kilometres, with 692 kilometres lying under the unclassified category.