Turkana leaders have agreed to allow crude oil leave their county after a day’s meeting on Thursday with top regional security officers. The meeting, held at Lokori in Turkana East, was also attended by Petroleum and Mining Cabinet Secretary John Munyes. The meeting was called a week after residents blocked the trucking of more oil to Mombasa in protest against rising insecurity in the area and lack of jobs for locals. In the meeting convened by Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Mongo Chimwanga and Mr Munyes, elected leaders led by Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said the mining company Tullow Oil was free to carry on with its transportation of the resource as from Wednesday next week . Angry residents, backed up by Turkana East MP Mohammed Ali Lokiru and Turkana South counterpart James Lomenen, had last week blocked five oil trucks destined for Mombasa at Kalemngorok on the Lokichar-Kapenguria highway. The demanded that the State beef up security along the Turkana-Baringo border, recover stolen livestock and assure them of their share of jobs and tenders in oil operations. READ: Revenue deal sets stage for Turkana oil exports READ: WACHIRA: This law will boost oil exploration and production Address concerns Addressing journalists after the meeting, Mr Chimwanga said that the concerns raised by leaders would be addressed immediately. "Of importance is the review of deployment of both specialised security personnel and National Police Reservists within the county and the leaders gave specific areas that they want deployment strengthened. "That will be done immediately by the county police commanders in Turkana and Baringo," Mr Chimwanga said. He said they were eager to ensure smooth oil operations in the region, saying proper structures were needed to make sure residents raise their concerns without fear. "We want to put structures in place so that if there are any concerns from the community then everybody knows what platform they can present them for deliberations and agreements," he added. During the deliberations that were also attended by Mr Nanok’s deputy Peter Lotethiro, Turkana County Commissioner Seif Matata, former Turkana East MP Nicholas Ngikor, area MCAs and senior county government officials, Mr Chimwanga assured the leaders that the government would do everything possible to recover stolen livestock. "The deployment of General Service Unit and Rapid Deployment Unit officers will be done in three days,” he said. The often volatile Kapedo has been the most affected area by banditry attacks and Mr Chimwanga said a special deputy county commissioner will be posted there in two weeks in addition to more police reservists. The Petroleum CS, who hails from the county, said that concerns on jobs, tenders and support for host community would be looked into. "On Friday next week we will have a conference to discuss local content and we will identify professionals and leaders in the county for engagement with my ministry and Tullow Oil on how to deal with grievances so that it doesn’t get out of hand to a level where oil trucks are blocked from heading to Mombasa," Mr Munyes said. The CS was however happy that the protests did not lead to the harming of anyone working at the oil sites or destruction of oil trucks by residents. Community engagement "This month, we will enhance community engagements especially on sensitising them on the second phase. "The country has spent Sh200 billion in the first phase up to this stage of oil transportation and now we are about to pump in Sh300 billion for the second phase that includes a pipeline from Lokichar to Port of Lamu and this expensive investment will require the support of everybody," he said. He said all the agreements with local leaders will be made public. Mr Nanok asked the regional commissioner to also ensure that security patrols are enhanced to assure residents and motorists of their safety. This would also allow for smooth transportation of oil, noting the resource will not only benefit Turkana but Kenya as a whole. The governor said killing of innocent Kenyans by bandits as well as cattle theft must stop. "As leaders in Turkana, we will therefore allow oil transportation to resume but we requested until Wednesday for us to sensitise the community on the resolutions of the meeting so that the Early Oil Pilot Scheme is not halted again," the governor said. Mr Lomenen and Mr Lokiru said they have allowed oil transportation to continue but warned against empty promises. "As we convince the community to allow oil transportation to resume by Wednesday, let the State recruit reservists as well as deploy specialised police units to critical areas to build confidence in residents and leaders," Mr Lomenen said. "The problem will only come when what we have resolved as leaders with the State will not be done but our hope is that there will be enhanced security so that all Turkana residents' lives and property are protected," Mr Lokiru said.