Farmers in Tana River County have a reason to smile after a Coast-based parastatal moved to revive the Galole Integrated Fruit Processing Plant. The Coast Development Authority (CDA) says it will breathe life into the facility after the government allocated Sh145 million towards re-opening the factory and expanding its production capacity. "We are revamping not only production capacity but also the speed to achieve both quality and quantity for better revenues," CDA managing director Mohammed Keinan said yesterday. Speaking to journalists in Hola, he said the plant which was initially manually operated will now be fully automated with plans underway to equip it with bigger machines. This is expected to see the facility produce 12,000 tones of pulp per year, compared to previously when it produced a mere 2,880 tones per year for the brief period it was operational. The Galole facility will also be expanded to start processing honey and drinking water. "The machines were not fit for the huge yield it was fed, hence affecting the quality and quantity of production," he explained while encouraging farmers to double mango production to sustain the machines. He said the project failed due to the manual nature of machines which affected the quality and quantity of the products, consequently affecting revenue due to inefficiencies.     'Not enough' Farmers however said that despite the potential to be a huge boost to them, the capacity to be installed still wasn't enough to process their yield. Speaking on behalf of the farmers, Khalif Bahola - a fruit farmers cooperative representative - said their mango output produce currently stood at 30,000 megatonne (MT) per year and urged CDA to put up plants in Tana Delta and Tana North as well. "We have been feeding companies in Mombasa County, Makueni County and Nairobi, and we are still left with a lot rotting in our stores and farms. We dare you to erect two more companies and see what we can offer," he said. The Galole mango processing plant was first installed in 2014 but became a white elephant after just a year of operations. According to Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana, politics and mismanagement were to blame for its failure. The closure of the plant saw about 30,000 farmers left at the mercy of exploitative middlemen who bought their mangoes at Sh2 per fruit, sending most growers to street mango vending and juice blending. The main product of the revived factory will be pulp packed for local and export markets. It is also expected to create employment among the locals. READ: Kenya's coffee farmers switch to avocado amid global boom Makueni mango juice plant gets Sh110m EU boost