Mombasa county government has been ordered to pay a former county executive committee member in charge of finance and economic planning Sh12 million for unlawful impeachment and removal from office. Justice Onesmus Makau of the Employment and Labour Relations Court declared that the impeachment and removal of office of Mr Walid Khalid was unconstitutional and unlawful. “The failure to follow a mandatory statutory procedure for the removal of a CEC member who is a public officer under the constitution was an affront to the constitution,” said Justice Makau. Justice Makau also quashed the proceedings and recommendations by the County Assembly of Mombasa for impeachment of Mr Khalid. The judge further said that in addition to unfair procedure followed to impeach Mr Khalid, the reasons for which he was removed from office were never communicated to him in writing by Governor Hassan Joho and the Speaker. Justice Makau said the Assembly proceeding to remove Mr Khalid even after the select committee reported that the allegation against him were unsubstantiated was done outside the mandate provided under section 40 of the County Government Act. The judge noted that due to the lapse of time from the date of his impeachment, the order to quash the proceedings and recommendations by the Assembly will not restore him to his office and will contend with compensation. Justice Makau awarded Mr Khalid Sh8 million for unlawful and unconstitutional removal from office, an award which he said is made in consideration of his rank in the county government which was protected from unfair removal. He was also awarded Sh4 million for loss of income and salary due to the unjustified and premature removal from office. “It is obvious that the abrupt removal occasioned loss of salary to him probably higher than the said award,” said Justice Makau. In July 2014, Mr Khalid was accused of incompetence, abuse of office and violation of the constitution and other provisions of the law leading to tabling of a motion for removal from office before the Assembly. Through lawyer Augustus Wafula, the petitioner said a select committee of the Assembly which was formed to investigate the allegations found that all charges against him were unsubstantiated after investigations. Mr Wafula argued that under the County Government Act, no further action could have been taken against him after the select committee’s verdict that the charges were not substantiated. The Assembly, its Speaker and Governor Joho who were respondents in the case denied assertions by Mr Khalid that allegations against him were unsubstantiated. They further denied that the matter was re-opened in his absence after the acquittal by the select committee leading to an impeachment without compliance with Section 41 of the Employment Act. The court noted that the select committee interrogated Mr Khalid’s accuser among other witnesses and invited him to defend himself on each allegation made against him. “It is clear that the committee reached a verdict that all the allegations made against the claimant were unsubstantiated and reported as such to the County Assembly,” said Justice Makau. The judge said the removal of Mr Khalid went against Article 23 (b) of the constitution which protects a public officer from dismissal from office without due process of the law. ALSO READ: Joho directive: An Instagram-worthy Mombasa shapes up