The Huduma Kenya secretariat is on the spot for introducing a third partner to an agreement it made with the Diamond Trust Bank (DTB)   for the provision of a smart card to ease government payments and receipts. The DTB Tuesday told Parliament that it did not play a part in the selection of Pseidon Ventures Ltd (PVL), brought on board to offer a stand-alone software to allow for additional functionalities for use and benefit of cardholders. On August 2015, the DTB entered into a contract with Huduma under which it was to establish the Huduma Kenya Smart Service and Payment and Card Distribution Network. On September 2016, the bank agreed to develop the Huduma card service mobile app. “Pseidon Ventures Ltd was pre-approved by Huduma who thereafter introduced them to DTB for purposes of integrating the mobile app,” Stephen Kodumbe, DTB company secretary, told the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security. A dispute between Huduma and DTB has since resulted in Huduma withdrawing the mobile app from both the Google and Apple app stores. Members of the National Youth Service (NYS) were set to receive their stipends through the platform as the first beneficiaries of the programme. MPs were querying why the Huduma secretariat imposed PVL on the deal despite the company being newly registered in the country. “We have reason to believe that PVL is a briefcase company which DTB did not do background check on and was imposed on them,” said Paul Koinange (Kiambaa Mp) who chairs the committee. READ: Huduma Centre working hours extended to 7 p.m The committee demanded for information of a sequence of events that led to the engagement of PVL. In February, the Ministry of Public Service, under which Huduma centres, operate, failed to explain claims of financial irregularities in the procurement of the Huduma card. Officials from the ministry, including Chief Administrative Secretary Rachael Shebesh and Huduma Centre CEO Dennis Mutuku pleaded with the committee to allow them time to put their house in order. The committee established that the three financial institutions awarded the tender did not have the technical capacity and payment card distribution network. Aside from the DTB, other firms that won the tender to supply the card are Kenya Commercial Bank , Equity Bank  and Commercial Bank of Africa. The Huduma service, which has won Kenya accolades around the world, is a response to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s call that all the centres be one-stop digital payment instruments.