State entities and parastatals will be required to publicise details of all tenders awarded by 15th of every month in fresh fight against corruption. In the guidelines issued by the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on Monday, public entities must disclose key details of the contractors in the reporting template, including their directors and number of contracts awarded since registration. Other details are contact information, prevailing market prices for the tendered items, date of award, contract duration, commencement and expiry as well as payment status. In a second reporting template, individual contractors must also indicate the type of business, their core competency, VAT number and compliance certificate and their business permit Executive order Mr Kinyua said all ministries, county governments, state agencies and corporations must abide by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Executive Order 2 of 2018 -- requiring them to publish all awarded contracts starting July 1. “Public entities are expected to publish full details of all contracts awarded by them through a variety of means, including their websites, the e-Citizen portal, the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority platforms, public notice boards and any other official government publications, “ it said. To ensure full compliance, Mr Kinyua said where the 15th of a given month falls on a weekend or a public holiday, all public entities must make tender details public on the day preceding the weekend or the public holiday. This follows President Kenyatta’s directive that all public entities must make public tender details so as to enable Kenyans scrutinise the items purchased, contract prices and the particulars of the suppliers including owners, directors and any other individuals with beneficial ownership of the winning companies. READ: How corrupt officials employ dirty tricks to rig State tenders Give their input Mr Kinyua said this was aimed at empowering Kenyans to inject their input in curbing runaway graft that has been blamed on errant procurement officers and committees that award tenders to the highest bidders. The government’s move will also see procurement of goods and services undertaken through the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) starting January next year, State House added. State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said this was aimed at entrenching good governance in the management of public affairs thereby deepening accountability and transparency. “This will enhance the highest level of public scrutiny at all units of public administration and thereby improve the management of public resources for public good," he said. Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich was also directed to guarantee the integrity of the IFMIS. The move comes a month after all heads of procurement and accounting units in ministries, departments, agencies and State corporations were ordered to hand over to their deputies and step aside as they wait to undergo fresh lifestyle audit.