A Rotterdam-based company has been contracted to plan for building of 11 ports in the country. Maritime and Transport Business Solutions (MTBS) has been assigned the consultancy services for the development of master plan for the ports. The Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) announced in its website that MTBS carries out the project together with Runji and Partners from Nairobi. The firm is to develop a Master Plan study that will facilitate the development of the ports "taking due cognizance of the long term development framework as outlined under Vision 2030. This report contains port development plans for eight out of the eleven assessed potential port sites." “The KPA is responsible for the port of Mombasa and today’s coastal small ports such as Funzi, Shimoni and Vanga located in the south coast, Mtwapa, Kilifi, Malindi, Lamu and Kiunga further north,” said part of the announcement. KPA said apart from the ports, an assessment has also been made regarding potential other port sites along the coast. Two additional potential port sites, which do not fall under the KPA Act, have been identified. The additional ports are Takaungu and Ngomeni. Takaungu concerns a giant land site in possession of KPA. Ngomeni on the other hand is selected for its good natural harbour conditions. Lamu ports In Lamu, KPA and the national government are developing a second commercial port at Manda Bay, Lamu. The port is being developed to tap into the South Sudan and Ethiopia markets under the LAPSSET initiative. It shall consist of a total of 32 Berths when fully completed. Shimoni port in Kwale is situated off Wasini Island in South Coast. It is rather small and has limited connectivity to the hinterland. Currently with a volume of approximately 10,000 metric tons, it is by far the largest port of all coastal small ports in the field of coastal trade. Destinations are mainly Pemba Island and Zanzibar. Based on general economic growth, the port has the potential to accommodate increasing coastal trade volumes. KPA is working in collaboration with the county government of Kwale to develop Shimoni into a fishing and tourist port.