Governor Mike Mbuvi has said the ongoing crackdown on boda boda operators has been expanded to rid the Nairobi central business district (CBD) of all hawkers. Mr Sonko made the remarks days after police officers impounded at least 20 motor cycles at the Globe Roundabout, sparking off protests from the motorcycle taxi operators. The county has been charging the operators a Sh2,000 fine and a Sh1,000 charge for every day the impounded motorcycles stay in their custody. According to the Boda Boda Safety Association chairman Kevin Mubadi, a meeting with the county authorities resolved to release the impounded motorcycles unconditionally but that was yet to happen. Demonstrations started on Monday over the county’s decision to bar them from the central business district (CBD). The operators have vowed to hold week-long demonstrations until talks to end the stalemate are held. A case filed by Starehe legislator Charles Njagua to allow boda bodas back into the CBD was dismissed by Justice Roselyn Aburili in March, paving the way for authorities to enforce the ban. “We will not allow boda bodas back into the CBD, despite the ongoing demonstrations,” governor Sonko said. Mr Sonko’s tough stand came after a high –level security meeting between county officials and top security team from the national government that reportedly resolved not to reverse the ban. Mr Sonko added that the chaotic operating nature of boda bodas runs the risk of tainting the city’s appeal to investors and visitors, saying they will instead be designated drop-off points outside the city centre. Areas around Railways bus stage, Uhuru Park procession area and Globe Cinema roundabout have already been identified as drop-off points for the operators. Boda bodas have been blamed for the rise in insecurity in major towns across the country, with suspects using them as fast means of getting away from crime scenes. A study by security firm, Securex showed at least 86 people were killed in incidents related to boda bodas in November last year, further indicating that five per cent of documented crime incidents in six months up to November were linked to motorbikes. The association will meet with Nairobi Senator Johnstone Sakaja next week Tuesday as it seeks an to the impasse with authorities.