Nairobi and Narok counties top the list of debtors that owe the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa) Sh2.3 billion for medical supplies. Kemsa chief executive Jonah Manjari Mwangi said Nairobi has not cleared a Sh235 million debt while Narok owes Sh104 million. “County debts are dynamic as they accumulate based on demand-driven procurement but debts of Nairobi and Nandi are older than one year,” he said. Nairobi Health executive Hitan Majevdia said they had paid Sh51 million before the end of the last financial year and are striving to clear the debt. “Some of the balance is provided for in the next financial year and we hope that they continue to provide the drugs needed in the hospitals,” he said. Dr Majevdia said the reason why some hospitals are out of medicine is not due to the Kemsa debt but due to under purchasing. “There is an imbalance since some facilities over purchase the drugs while others make poor projections and since we order every three months some end out of stock before time,” he said. Council of Governors’ health committee chairman Mohammed Kuti said the debt was due to the Treasury delays in disbursing funds to the counties. “The challenge is that money does not come in as planned yet the hospitals have to run and at this point, we have to prioritise so we even make payment plans,” he said. READ: Drugs agency Kemsa denies responsibility for expired medicine Dr Kuti, however, urged counties to clear their debt because Kemsa is a one-stop shop for medical supplies. “They have cheaper drugs and we are assured of the best quality even when we are talking about generic drugs. “They have about 90 per cent of what all counties need, therefore, we have to maintain a good relationship with them,” he said. Dr Mwangi said they are discussing with the governors on how money meant for health can be ring-fenced for the specific functions. “This will ensure that funds for supplies cannot be used for any other purpose and payments for commodities are not delayed,” he said. Data from KEMSA shows that Kitui, Mandera, Makueni, Nyandarua, Embu and Laikipia are among the best paying counties.