The public procurement website meant to increase transparency in the award of government contracts and curb rampant fraud will be up and running in the next seven days, officials said Thursday. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua (right) says in a July 17 memo that accounting officers in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) are required to consolidate and publish the information, including new aspects of ongoing contracts, on the 15th of every month. “An online portal for its actualization has been built and is ready for launch within the next seven days,’ said Mr Kinyua in the memo copied to the attorney-general, cabinet secretaries, governors, chief administrative secretaries and principal secretaries. “Registration of users and training on the processes and procedures for publishing the required information will take place from 9:00am to 12:30pm on Thursday, July 19, 2018 at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC),” Mr Kinyua said. Those nominated by their departments to attend the training, which kicked off on Thursday, were required to carry with them a letter from the accounting officer mandating them to be responsible for updating the portal. They were also required to carry with them an original and copy of their National Identity Card or passport and their official contact details, including phone numbers and email addresses. “After the training your nominated officers are required to load details of all ongoing contracts and thereafter continuously update and publish all information on tenders and contract awards as per the executive order,’ said Mr Kinyua. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered online publication of government tenders and contracts through Executive Order Number Two of 2018. Publication of the contracts is meant to allow the public to scrutinise the deals and report any irregularities as part of the fight against corruption. READ: Govt lists mandatory details in publishing of tender awards Information on the portal includes the basis of award of tenders, parameters of assessment, names and details of the tender committee members as well as the value of each contract. If fully implemented, taxpayers will also get to know the owners and directors of firms that have been awarded public contracts. The directive comes barely a few days after the State asked the heads of procurement and accounting units in government to hand over to their deputies and subject themselves to fresh vetting. The officers were also required to submit information on their assets, liabilities and previous work record to State House through Mr Kinyua. This comes as the government continues to charge dozens of officials and business people with theft of billions of shillings in connection to various corruption scandals.