Treasury has cut the staff, catering and vehicle maintenance costs in office of former president Mwai Kibaki in a fresh bid to ease taxpayers’ burden of keeping the retired head of states comfortable. Staff pay for those serving in Kibaki’s office has dropped to Sh53 million in the year starting July, down from Sh72.7 million in the year ending next month. Taxpayers will pay Sh1 million less for catering and vehicle maintenance costs each for the new financial year, budget estimates show. However, foreign travel expenses for the period will nearly triple to Sh5.3 million in a budget review that will lead to overal savings of Sh15.4 million. This will bring the budget of the office to Sh87.2 million from the current Sh102 million, reflecting a 15 per cent cut. The office budget is one on the benefits offered to retired presidents — Daniel arap Moi and Mr Kibaki — who also enjoy a generous monthly pension. The two will in the current year ending June earn Sh116.6 million in annual pension, which will be cut to Sh96.5 million in the New Year. READ: Treasury cuts Kibaki, Moi pension by Sh15m ALSO READ: Kakamega State Lodge dais repairs to cost Sh34m Sh4.65 million monthly If awarded equally, their package for the current year assures each of a monthly payout of Sh4.65 million — an amount that is more than three times President Uhuru Kenyatta’s official salary of Sh1.2 million. It also puts the benefits of the two at par with the salary and benefits of top chief executives of financial and telecom companies listed at the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Mr Kibaki and Mr Moi are every month entitled to a Sh379,500 house and Sh247,500 fuel allowances on top of entertainment (Sh247,500) and utilities (Sh379,500). The law also entitles the duo to have two personal assistants, four secretaries, four messengers, four drivers and bodyguards. Taxpayers also cater for workers in Mr Kibaki’s Nairobi office that was bought at Sh250 million three years ago, and Mr Moi’s office at Kabarnet Gardens off the city’s Ngong Road. The package has also come under heavy criticism on grounds that the retired presidents left office as rich men with property worth billions of shillings and vast business interests.