A section of Nairobi hawkers, boda boda operators and matatu owners are set to travel to Rwanda next month for a benchmarking exercise. The trip, which was first publicised about three weeks ago, is part of a programme announced by City Hall targeting at least 300 individuals who will travel to the neighbouring country to learn best practices and new ideas to improve their businesses. City Hall deputy director of communications, Elkana Jacob, said the individuals who will travel to Rwanda will be selected by their lobby groups after Madaraka Day celebrations. “The selection process will be done after June 1 and it will be by the respective associations representing the individuals,” said Mr Jacob on Tuesday. Small-scale traders, boda boda riders and matatu operators will each contribute 100 members to be taken to the East African country to learn better ways of managing their trade. Last week, Governor Mike Sonko met leaders of the three associations at City Hall ahead of the planned visit where he committed to ensure their economic livelihoods are uplifted. “We want them to learn from the best. Our goal is to make Nairobians self-reliant and open up business opportunities for everyone,” said Mr Sonko. Monthly clean-up Kenya Boda Boda Safety Association national chairman Kevin Mubadi said that apart from doing business professionally, the association will soon start a cleaning programme in the city to be done at least once every month. “Our aim is the make the city a better place. We, being small scale traders, are ready to learn from other cities the way they are running their affairs and businesses," he said. Vice chair of Muthurwa market, Cecilia Wairimu, said that the Nairobi receives many important individuals, among them foreign dignitaries. “We as hawkers and small scale traders are ready to learn new business trends. We are also ready to move to the new markets that will be put up by Governor Sonko,” she said. On his part, Matatu Welfare Association national chair, Dickson Mbugua, said that they are ready to move out of the CBD in order to bring sanity to the area. READ: City Hall plans to take boda boda operators, hawkers on tour to Rwanda