The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has been entangled in a vicious war with the Ministry of Land for 23 years over the ownership of a piece of land in Kisumu County. The land in dispute, block 4/87 is where Robert Ouko estate stands and is valued at Sh378 million, according to valuers from the taxman. The land was given to KRA in 1995 by the previous occupant, the East African Community but up to date the Ministry of Lands has failed to give out the title deed. Appearing before the National Assembly Public Investments committee yesterday, KRA Commissioner General John Njiraini told MPs that they have tried for two decades to get the title deed from the Ministry of Lands but were yet get the document. “We have been dealing with this matter for 20 years and because it is an issue between two government bodies, there is nothing much we can do,” Mr Njiraini told the MPs. The committee in a bid to settle the matter has invited the CS for Lands Farida Karoney, her PS Nicholas Muraguri and chairman of the National Lands Commission Muhammad Swazuri to appear before them and shed light on the issue. “We have noticed laxity from the Ministry of Lands in issuing title deeds especially to State corporations. 1995 to date is a long time for an individual or a company to fail to get a title deed,” said the committee chairman and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. Mr Nassir expressed concern that with many State corporations failing to get crucial documents like title deeds for their land, the government risk losing properties. “Someone must definitely have a proper explanation on why KRA has failed to get a title deed up to now. This is a matter that we will follow up to its conclusion,” Mr Nassir said. Mr Njiraini appeared before the committee to answer queries raised by the Auditor General in his report for the 2014/205 financial year. Mr Edward Ouko in the report accused KRA of failing to acquire deeds for 13 prime lands belonging to them, and spread across the country. Buildings worth Sh829 million which were transferred to KRA by the government at inception in 1995, also did not have proper documents, said Mr Ouko Mr Njiraini told the lawmakers that they have made significant steps in getting the title deeds for their properties but the process takes time.