MPs’ domestic mileage claims for the six months to December dropped by Sh1 billion as the legislators reduced their movement to focus on campaigning in constituencies, a fresh report by the Controller of Budget shows. The reduction in mileage claims also reflect the impact of a cut in MPs’ pay between July and December, before the High Court suspended the review that had been gazetted by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC). The Controller of Budget (CoB) report shows that Members of Parliament spent Sh913 million on domestic travel in the first half of the year compared to Sh1.9 billion in a similar period a year prior. This is the first time that the amount spent went below the Sh1 billion mark and is also the lowest half–year travel expenditure for Parliament since the controller of budget started compiling data on public expenditure with the onset of devolution in 2013. The amount comprises Sh329 million expenditure of the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) and Sh584 of the National Assembly. READ: Senators get Sh1bn to police governors The period under review coincided with a time the MPs were on the home stretch to the August 8 General Election, meaning they cut down on long distance travel to marshal up support in their constituencies. The SRC had in July 2017 gazetted new remuneration structure for State officers that proposed a reduction on legislator’s basic salary and scrapping of five allowances including mileage allowance. Implementation of the SRC’s salary reviews was halted by the High Court in December, allowing Parliament to revert to paying MPs the higher salaries and perks as well as offering them the scrapped Sh5 million car grant. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai said mileage allowance claims will be calculated based on the AA rates and the distance from Parliament Buildings to the members’ homes. The suspended SRC notice had introduced a new regime that sought to have senators and National Assembly members paid a fixed monthly transport allowance through the payroll. SRC had recommended a distance calculated from Parliament to members’ respective county headquarters. The mileage allowance would be paid in two components. One is the fixed car maintenance allowance that was to be paid at the rate of Sh356,525 per month through the payslip. The other is the mileage allowance, a claimable amount for actual extra kilometres travelled by a member whose area of representation is beyond 375 kilometres. The claims would be processed on a weekly basis. The six months also marked the period new MPs underwent orientation around Parliament Buildings, which explains the reduced spending on travel. The orientation included the lawmakers submitting their curriculum vitae, photographs and other relevant information, registering them for medical insurance and issuing them with new identity cards. Expenditure on domestic travel for the 50 State ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) in the year ending June dropped 13 per cent to Sh3.2 billion compared to the Sh3.7 billion spent a year prior. The Treasury directed accounting officers in all ministries to cut on non-essential budgets such as conferencing, travel and motor vehicle maintenance to the bare minimum in an effort to free funds for development projects. ALSO READ: EDITORIAL: MPs ripping off Kenyans