The University of Nairobi (UoN) plans to build student hostels on its Kisumu Campus. Speaking during the commissioning of the Kisumu Campus Complex, Vice-chancellor Philip Mbithi attributed low enrolment at the campus to lack of accommodation. “We are hoping to work with the county government and other potential investors to build adequate hostels, (the shortage) has been a setback for students who want to enroll at the institution,” Prof Mbithi said. He said the institution will work with the county government and private investors to build hostels to house over 5,000 students. The move is meant to attract local and international students from Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi, Congo and Rwanda. John Orindi, corporate affairs director at UoN, said the university was looking for investors with capacity to build self-contained apartments in a secure environment. “The hostels should be customised to cater for all student needs and enable on-campus learning and social facilities while ensuring adequate safety at an affordable cost,” said Mr Orindi. The proprietors will manage their property while the university will assure them of getting clients, he said. The Kisumu Campus is currently offering 12 programmes with a population of over 1,800 students operating from a six-floor building. Upon completion of the 16 storey building, the structure located on Oginga Odinga Highway will be the tallest in Kisumu. READ: Private investors to build 23,000-bed hostels in public varsities Academic programmes offered include Education, Business, Law, Arts, Economics and Open and Distance Learning. Facilities at the institution include lecture rooms, academic staff and administrative offices. “We also have several support services, a library, an ICT laboratory, a teleconferencing room, a sanatorium and a cafeteria,” said Prof Mbithi. The campus has 194 employees comprising 162 teaching and 32 administrative and support staff. UoN chancellor Vijoo Rattansi said the institution was commitment to providing quality training and personnel who will be responsive to the county government’s needs. “We are looking forward to working with other neighbouring county governments and ensuring that they pick the UoN as a preferred institution to train their personnel,” Dr Rattansi said. “We are also considering executive training for staff, student sponsorship, environmental conservation, and provision of utilities and services by the devolved units of government,” she said.