Two dams neighbouring the one that broke its banks and flooded areas downstream killing at least 44 people, in Solai, Nakuru County, will be emptied today. Water Resources Management Authority (Warma) said experts will pump water from the two dams to avoid further disaster. The mega dam that burst its banks was one of the three water reservoirs owned by prominent large scale farmer Patel Mansukul. The other two dams are intact but with high volumes of water, signalling another impending disaster. One of the two dams, which was full to the brim, was leaking on Thursday evening, raising fears that it may also burst and create further destruction. Rift Valley regional coordinator Mongo Chimwaga and Warma boss Simon Wang’ombe said the exercise will be overseen by engineers from the national and Nakuru County governments. “A technical team of engineers did an inspection of the dams on Thursday evening and handed over a report to the authorities. Action will be conducted today,” said Mr Chimwaga. READ: Patel Dam tragedy: 44 dead, 41 in hospital and 40 missing ALSO READ:KISERO: Solai dam tragedy a clear wake-up call Not licensed On Thursday, it emerged that none of the dams had been licensed. Warma says, they have been engaging Patel Coffee Estates Limited to legalise the dams it constructed on its 4,000 acres of land in the area, without success. This was after they noted the dangers they posed after the dams started leaking. He said the law requires that any private dam going beyond a height of five metres must be regularised by the authority. "For the last one year, we have been trying to engage the company on how to legalise the dams on its farm but they have been reluctant. As far as we are concerned, the dams are illegal," said Mr Wangombe. The declaration that the dams had not been legalised leaves many questions unanswered including why the concerned authorities did not act to avert the disaster. Mr Chimwaga, who was accompanied by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui among other leaders, also revealed that 40 people are still missing after the tragedy.