The Kenya Ferry Services (KFS) is still in talks with counties as it seeks to expand its services. The agency wants to extend its operations to Diani in Kwale, Lamu, Malindi, Kilifi, Lake Victoria and Lake Turkana. In Mombasa, apart from the services to Likoni and Mtongwe, KFS plans to extend operations to Makupa, Mashimoroni and South Coast. Managing director Bakari Ngowa said his organisation is also in consultation with Kwale to start ferry services to Diani. “KFS plans to take ferry services to other parts of the country. We have also done a feasibility study on coastal waters. A team led by operations manager Jennifer Cirindi has also been to Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale for consultations,” Mr Bakari said in Mombasa city. “Our team has also visited Turkana and Marsabit and interacted with officials of the counties bordering Lake Victoria.” He said, currently for a person in Marsabit to go to Turkana, he or she has to travel to Nairobi, “but the water connection is easy”. Ferry services on Lake Victoria, he said, will boost trade between Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. The MD said KFS is working with the Kenya Maritime Authority, Kenya Ports Authority, the Ministry of Tourism, Vision 2030 Secretariat and counties to ensure the plans are successful. The KFS officials have also been to Zanzibar to learn how Azam organisation is running ferry services from Dar es Salaam to the island. Mr Gowa said separate landing facilities would be established at Likoni channel for people and vehicles and a modern ferry terminus built on both sides. “The stampedes usually witnessed when ferries delay are because commuters are kept in uncomfortable areas with no seats,” he said. He noted that land had been identified on the Mombasa side for building the terminus but KFS has to acquire land in Likoni. CCTVs would be installed in ferries and scanning of vehicles intensified to ensure security. KFS currently ferries more than 320,000 pedestrians, more than 5,800 vehicles and about 5,400 bicycles across the Likoni channel daily.