Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary General Wilson Sossion has called a special delegates meeting to replace several top officials who retired from the union. Mr Sossion said the main agenda of the meeting is to elect the chairperson, two vice national chairpersons and fill vacant slots in the National Executive Council (NEC). The post of Knut chair fell vacant following the retirement of Mr Mudzo Nzili who left the union in May 16 last year. Mr Wycliffe Etole Omucheyi has filled the post in an acting capacity. “A special Annual Delegates Congress (ADC) shall be held in June 2018 on a date and venue as was resolved by delegates last year. During the conference, elections shall be held to fill vacant positions. “I kindly request Knut branches countrywide to start preparing for the special ADC in earnest,” said Mr Sossion while addressing the press at Knut Headquarters in Nairobi Thursday. The announcement comes as Mr Sossion is facing strong opposition within the union. He also threatened to take firm actions against union staff and elected officials who report late to duty after 8 am and leave office early before 5 pm. “From now henceforth, all permanent staff, including full-time elected Union officials will have to strictly observe official working hours. We have no other choice but to attend and serve teachers as stipulated in rules and regulations actualizing the Knut constitution,” he said. He again vowed that he will not relinquish office until his term expires in 2021 while terming his suspension as illegal. Mr Sossion has been at the centre of a storm since he was nominated as a legislator in the National Assembly by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party last year. He was suspended on Tuesday following a NEC meeting during which 22 against two members voted in favour of a motion to have Sossion suspended over ‘misconduct’. NEC picked one of the two KNUT Deputy Secretary Generals, Hesbon Otieno, as the Acting Secretary-General to ensure the smooth running of affairs pending the introduction of a substantive agenda in a subsequent meeting to discuss Sossion’s conduct. On Wednesday, Mr Sossion got a reprieve after the Labour Court stopped his removal from office. Lady Justice Maurine Onyango issued a prohibitory order blocking the Registrar of Trade Unions and the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) from appointing, recognising or admitting any other person as Knut Secretary General. READ: Knut wars intensify as top brass ‘ousts’ Sossion