Governor Paul Chepkwony is fighting accusations of abuse of office following his move to create two new offices without the approval of the County Assembly. Members of the county assembly claim Prof Chepkwony went ahead to create extra positions of chief officer Pharmaceutical services and chief officer Agriculture despite opposition from the House. Kapsoit Member of County Assembly Paul Chirchir said the two offices are not in existence hence the officers appointed on acting capacity were there illegally. “Office of Chief Officer Pharmaceutical Services was not approved for creation therefore it only exists in the mind of the Governor. He does not have powers to put anyone, not even Dr Winnie Rotich to act in that Office. “Lillian Kerio is not an employee of County Government of Kericho, she is in the office of chief officer agriculture illegally, acts illegally and has no authority to transact any business on behalf of the County Government of Kericho, all her actions will be null and void,” said Mr Chirchir. Prof Chepkwony said he split the health docket into two for effective service delivery. “Preventive medicine is under the new chief officer Dr Rotich who recently graduated from Birmingham University with a Master of Pharmacy while Dr David Ukuwam, responsible for curative medicine and referral sector. That way, provision of healthcare will be efficient,” said the governor adding that he was within the law in creating position. “This office is substantive and I am within the law. But it is just an administrative post. She is not an accounting officer. It is substantive,” said Prof Chepkwony. According to the County Governments Act 2012, the process for creating a new office demands that the County Public Service Board  (CPSB) writes to the Assembly requesting for the creation of a new office and giving reasons that necessitates it. The assembly will then debate and (dis)approve the creation of new Office(s). Mr Chirchir said the CPSB had indeed made that request to which the assembly rejected the creation of the two offices with reasons. “Dr Rotich who was interviewed among other interviewees for the position of Chief Officer did not qualify as per CPSB recommendations on those who were shortlisted. Governor went ahead to appoint her on acting capacity as CO Pharmaceutical services an office that does not exist. In the agriculture docket, he said the governor sought to create the position of Livestock and Fisheries to cool residents of Soin/Sigowet sub-county which had been marginalised in the distribution of positions. The governor in his Mischief decided to give an appointment letter of Fisheries and Livestock to Mr Dan Kuley, an office that does not exist, and yet the assembly approved him for agriculture. Mr Kuley declined; hence the governor picked Ms Kerio in acting capacity in Agriculture. The assembly later refused to approve Ms Kerio when the governor forwarded her name but she is still in office. ALSO READ: Kericho to set up Sh200 million CT scan centre