Seven beneficiaries of the Aga Khan Academy’s Talent Identification Programme will begin their tertiary education in various universities across the world. During the 12th academy’s graduation ceremony on Saturday, the students were awarded with diplomas in a colourful event attended by Dr Mahmoud Eboo, the Resident Representative of His Highness the Aga Khan and the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) in Canada. The event was emotional for the graduates and their families, friends and teachers; all looking back at the journey that led them to where they are today. For some students, the experience at the Academy had at one time been a pipe dream. William Baya who has been at the academy for six years won a full scholarship to attend Washington and Lee University in the United States to pursue a degree in Physics and Engineering. The recent graduate joined the school in 2011 from Ganze Sub County in Kilifi County. "I'm a first-generation student to attend university, making this a very huge step not just for me but my family too," says Baya. Give back Raised by a single mother young Japheth Elisha a graduate hopes to give back to his community back in Kisumu once he completes his studies at the University of Wisconsin, Madison He has received a full scholarship to study Financial Economics/ Business. Prudence Hainga from Kisumu is a MasterCard Foundation Scholar and will be attending the University of Edinburgh fully funded to study Political Science. "I want to realise my childhood dream of fighting injustice and corruption in Kenya...learning how political systems function and what others have done to ensure sustainable development as well as spread out opportunities for their citizens...I am motivated to use my knowledge as a weapon against discrimination and inequality and work for a better Kenya – a Kenya that feels like home to all," says Prudence. The programme works to identify top year 6 students from across Kenya with exceptional intellectual ability and leadership potential. TIP ensures that the students are fully funded for their study at the academy.