Nakuru county government Tuesday began a two-week headcount of employees to get rid of ghost workers blamed for its burgeoning wage bill that stands at about Sh6 billion. In an effort to save the taxpayers’ money, Governor Lee Kinyanjui’s administration wants to record personal information and have biometric details  of about 5,000 of its workers on the payroll. On Monday, the process began at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital, which has over 600 workers. The county government employees gave their personal details including National Identification Cards, Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) PIN, letter of appointment, academic and professional certificates. The workers also recorded their biometric information such as fingerprints and facial details. County Executive Committee member (CEC) incharge of Public Service Management Lawrence Mwangangi said the exercise was aimed at capturing all county workers postings among other information, so that every person paid is accounted for. “We want to ensure that whoever we pay is someone who works for the county and the exercise is meant to ensure that the county manages the workforce in a better way,” Mr Mwangangi said. He said the county hired PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Kenya to carry out the exercise whose recommendations  will be used to boost service delivery. Mr Mwangagi said apart from controlling the exploding wage bill, the county wants to find out whether the employees are qualified for the jobs they hold and where training is required to improve services. “This exercise will help us identify many things including whether there are incompetent and ghost workers on the payroll,” Mr Mwangangi said. The official further said the exercise would involve a comprehensive human resource audit of the entire county staff to establish their designations. He said among other things, the employees would be required to declare their ethnic backgrounds to determine whether the county’s workforce represents the face of  Kenya. “We started with the Nakuru Level Five Hospital because of its huge workforce and then we will proceed to other stations such as the county headquarters for the next two weeks,” said the CEC. At the Nakuru Level Five Hospital Tuesday, workers queued for long hours waiting to pass through the process following biometric system hitches. ALSO READ: Nakuru County creditors to wait longer for their dues