The government has made an about-turn and withdrawn a Bill that would have given Parliament power to vet, approve or reject the next Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) commissioner-general. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, the sponsor of the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2018, expunged amendments to the KRA Act without giving any reasons. “As you are aware the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2018, was read for the first time in the House last week. The Bill contains amendments to 61 different Statutes including the KRA Act. “I wish to inform members that I have received a letter from the Leader of Majority Aden Duale seeking to withdraw the proposed amendment to the KRA Bill. I therefore direct that the amendment be withdrawn forthwith,” Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi said in a communication to MPs. The chief taxman is appointed by the relevant Cabinet secretary upon the recommendation of the KRA board. “There shall be a commissioner-general of the authority who shall be recruited by the board through a competitive process and appointed by the minister with the prior approval of the National Assembly,” the expunged amendments to the Bill read. The withdrawn section had come at a time when succession at the KRA is looming following the expiry of the term of the current commissioner-general, John Njiraini, in March. READ: Parliament to pick next KRA boss in bill The KRA board is yet to launch the search for Mr Njiraini’s replacement two months after he attained the 60-year retirement age. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Mr Njiraini as KRA commissioner-general in March 2012 when he was Finance minister. Mr Njiraini’s second term was to end on March 3, but the Employment and Labour Relations Court last month allowed him to remain in office as activist Okiya Omtatah pushed on with a case seeking his removal on account of age. Mr Omtatah moved to court seeking to compel the KRA board and Treasury secretary Henry Rotich to appoint an acting commissioner-general and commence recruitment of a substantive office holder. Mr Njiraini has repeatedly stated that he has no intention of asking for an extension of his term. “The commissioner-general shall be appointed on such terms and conditions of service as the board may determine in the instrument of appointment, upon advice of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission,” the annulled changes read.