Officials have linked mounds of garbage piling at Kibarani dumpsite in Mombasa to the derailing of a 16-wagon fuel train that spilled 3,000 litres of petrol. The Saturday midnight incident occurred next to the Mombasa-Nairobi highway, completely cutting off the Mombasa Island from the mainland. It inconvenienced hundreds of passengers and tourists using the Madaraka Express passenger train throughout Sunday, besides the losses to public service vehicles. The passengers included those rushing to catch their flights at the Moi International Airport. The national government opened the road inside the Port of Mombasa to be used for emergency cases and for passengers going to the airport and the railway station. On Monday afternoon, the disaster management team, the Mombasa County Government officials and a team of oil contingency plan players held a meeting to deliberate on the garbage menace in the dumpsite that sometimes covers the railway track. “There is a meeting between the team and county on the garbage to ensure it is not dumped along the railway line. "The technical team is on the ground working on the track. Police are there to provide security,” Principal Secretary for Maritime and Shipping Affairs Nancy Karigithu told the Business Daily. She said the highway was reopened on Sunday midnight. READ: Mombasa seeks cleaners to get rid of piling garbage ALSO READ: Mombasa is too filthy, hoteliers say Foul play Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina said investigations regarding the derailment is ongoing. He, however, insisted there was no foul play. Mr Maina said the garbage was a contributing factor to the derailment. “We had already brought to the attention of the county government. But foul play has been ruled out. Losses will be quantified as part of the investigations. "Decanting is complete only small amounts of fuel remaining for the wagons are difficult to reach and d exhaust everything,” Mr Maina told Nation on phone. Kibarani dumpsite has been a major headache to governor Hassan Joho prompting its closure. Tourism players have been pleading with him to shut down the dumpsite which is an eyesore for tourists and residents travelling to Mombasa West areas including the international airport, SGR station and to upcountry. Largest dumpsite Kibarani, the oldest and largest dumpsite in the region, is along the highway. It is scheduled for relocation in June. However, its alternative, the Mwakirunge dumpsite, is on a flight path. The Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) says the dumpsite should be 13 kms away from flight paths, but Mwakirunge is 12.9 kms, meaning 100 metres is within the flight path. “The main issue is take-off and landing. We don’t advocate for dumpsites in our flight paths because it is always dangerous because of the birds in the dumpsite,” a KCAA official said.