The holder of the position of Head of Public Service does not require parliamentary vetting as it was legally created by the president as an office in the public service, Joseph Kinyua who occupies the office has said. Mr Kinyua, who was responding to a suit by activist Okiya Omtatah challenging the legality of his job, has told the court that the petitioner has misunderstood his role as Head of Public Service and that of Public Service Commission (PSC) as the two serve different mandates. Mr Kinyua argues that the Constitution empowers the President to establish an office in the public service with the recommendation of the PSC, a provision that gives his office the necessary legality. Mr Omtatah in a petition pending before the Employment and Labour Relations Court is seeking a declaration that Mr Kinyua, whom he says occupies an office that does not exist in the Constitution or an Act of Parliament, lacks powers to direct or instruct authorised officers who have been vetted and authorised by Parliament as provided for in the Constitution. READ: Court suspends directive allowing parastatal bosses to serve beyond 60 years Mr Omtatah is also challenging a circular that cleared the way for heads of State corporations to remain in office beyond the mandatory retirement age of 60. But Mr Kinyua says the circular was misinterpreted as it was only offering clarifications and was not a legal instrument. “The petition erroneously asserts that vetting is to be undertaken for all officers appointed in the public service, and further presumes that all offices co-ordinating vetted public officers are to be established in the Constitution for them to undertake the designated mandate,” Mr Kinyua says in an affidavit filed in court on May 7. He further notes that his office is not meant to usurp the roles of PSC but to co-ordinate the officers of the government on behalf of the president. Mr Omtatah holds that Mr Kinyua has no legal mandate to issue directives to principal secretaries or authorised officers of government noting that there is no provision for a separate head of public service apart from the Public Service Commission. Mr Kinyua, in a circular dated February 27, titled ‘Terms of service for state corporations chief executive officers’, had purported to exempt the CEOs of state corporations from the mandatory retirement at 60 and from the six-year term limit. Mr Omtatah argues that the general understanding is that President Uhuru Kenyatta picked Mr Kinyua to serve as the leader of his staff at State House and that is the reason he was never vetted by Parliament. But Mr Kinyua defended the circular, noting that it was ‘directions from office of the president to the state offices as a clarification of the government’s position on the term of CEOs of state corporations but not regulatory or statutory instrument. Issuance of the circular was necessitated by various contradictory interpretations regarding the contract status of State corporation CEOs, who have attained the age of 60 years, he says in court papers. ALSO READ: Summons out for Wako, Kinyua in Anglo Leasing suit