Technology is double-edged and organisations, reliant on modern technological tools, should also invest in defences against cyber attacks to become resilient. While technology helps businesses to conveniently access or deliver a variety of services, it also exposes them to risks. When computers connect to a network and begin communicating with others, they are exposed to risk. Safeguarding Kenya’s cyberspace The Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) observes that ICT has been cited as a key enabler of socio-economic transformation. The industry regulator notes that realisation of the government’s Big Four agenda and Kenya’s long-term socio-economic blueprint will leverage on the adoption of ICTs. It will also leverage on the safeguarding of Kenya’s cyber space to facilitate the envisaged transformation. To mitigate cyber threats and foster a safer Kenyan cyberspace, government established the National Kenya Computer Incident Response Team - Coordination Centre (National KE-CIRT/CC). This is a multi-agency collaboration framework responsible for the national coordination of cyber security as Kenya’s national point of contact on cyber security matters. The National KE-CIRT/CC is based at the CA Centre and comprises staff from the Communications Authority of Kenya and law enforcement agencies. It detects, prevents and responds to various cyber threats targeted at the country on a 24/7 basis, having commenced round-the-clock operations in 2017.The National KE-CIRT/CC acts as the interface between local and international ICT service providers whose platforms are used to perpetrate cyber crimes, and Kenya’s Judicial Law and Order Sector, which investigates and prosecutes cybercrimes. Worldwide, it is known that criminals always seek ways to stay ahead of established security systems so as to commit their nefarious deeds with ease. The paradox is that, information technology, considered an ally of crime busters, is double-edged as thugs also use to gain an unfair edge over legally established businesses. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Bill into law. This is an effort to fight cyber crime. However, waiting for legal recourse – and punishment for the criminals – is akin to locking the stable long after the horse has bolted. Cyber resilience “The only way for organisations to get ahead of cyber criminals and holistically protect their business is to adopt a new approach to email security and to focus on cyber resilience,” Mr Brian Pinnock, Mimecast, Africa and Middle East Sales Engineering Manager says. He urges organisations to embrace cyber resilience for email by providing comprehensive security controls before, continuity during, and automated recovery after an attack. Such a holistic strategy against potential cybercrimes, he says, ensures that an organisation does not experience disruptions, lengthy downtime and data loss. Mr Pinnock points out that a defence-only security strategy alone is not designed to protect against the level and volume of advanced attacks. Continuing to invest in disparate technologies and focus on a defence-only security strategy will lead to consequences like intellectual property loss, unplanned downtime, decreased productivity and increased vulnerabilities. Thus, organisations face significant risks when they fail to invest in cyber resilience. Globally, cyber crime is on the rise with attacks and breaches happening every other day. Attackers are becoming more sophisticated, making it difficult (but not impossible) for organisations to defend against the level and volume of attacks.