Hotels at the coastal region are banking on conferencing as the city hosts major government and international conferences this year. The accountants body, ICPAK, is currently holding its 34th annual summit with more than 2,600 delegates at the Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort and Spa in Mombasa. The resort is at the same hosting the Institute of Human Resource Management (IHRM) conference, with more than 500 participants is also underway at the hotel. READ: HR experts meet in Mombasa Banqueting and Conferencing Manager Seif Njamah said the hotel has witnessed a lot of activities with the two major conferences. The hotel has 100 per cent bookings. ”We have had to create more outdoor dining options. We have also used our lawn a lot and taken in outdoor conferencing by use of this big domes. I am sure before the year closes we will have done more than 5,000 people,” he said. Hotels are enjoying the brisk business throughout the year through the conferences mostly by the national and county governments. “All governments are looking for a space to do meetings and strategise that is why you see there is an increased need of conferencing throughout the year even in December," said Mr Seif. READ: Coast hotels eye conferences as domestic arrivals dip Fully booked Several other hotels are fully booked thanks to the at least 2,500 MCAs and 47 senators attending the third annual legislative summit, which is being held in Mombasa for the third consecutive year. Entertainment joints at the resort city are making a kill with many delegates spending the nights at the nightlife spots. Dominic Muange, a manager at Anuba Lounge, said the joint has seen an influx of guests from upcountry. “We are benefitting a lot from the many people in town. Normally, few customers visit the joint during the weekday but since Monday we have been full. "Unlike the usual weekdays where most customers leave the bar early this week most are staying up until morning," he said. Beach operators Beach operators at the Jomo Kenyatta beach said the participants are flocking to the beach. Kuldip Touring Company director Ishpal Oberoi said conference tourism is a boost to most hotels in the north coast. “Local tourists especially those who come for conferences are the only one keeping north coast tourism alive. Although compared to 2013 we are doing 70 per cent less business," he said. He, however, this week the tour company has transferred more than 300 guests. The week-long annual Skål International World Congress, with more than 1,000 international delegates, is also slated for Mombasa in late October. Pride Inn Group of hotels managing director Hasnain Noorani said they are gearing up to host the congress. Mr Noorani said over the past few years the country had experienced a steady growth in tourist arrivals for meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE). He said this was largely driven by strong investor confidence and strategic positioning of Kenya as a gateway to East Africa. Convention centre Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohammed Hersi says a convention Centre in Mombasa would boost conference tourism and alleviate the problems of the low tourist season. “We are pushing to get a convention centre in Mombasa that can take up to 5,000 people. We need to move away from just 500 people," he said. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers's (KAHC) Coast branch executive officer Sam Ikwaye said to compete globally, the governments should also address infrastructure development and city cleanliness.