The Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) is supporting an "objective" review of the constitution, which will make it effective and more efficient. The accountants' body wants Kenyans to critically assess the impact of 2010 constitution without prejudice and make proposals to make it better. ICPAK chairman Julius Mwatu said the constitution heralded a new dawn for ordinary citizens with the devolution of resources to the counties. Rising costs Mr Mwatu noted that the current debate on constitutional amendments has been triggered by the rising cost of financing many structures established through the same constitution. “Time is near to have an objective look at our constitution with a view of making it a living and sacred document that meets our individual and collective aspirations that can improve our lives and check excesses of those in power while at the same time promoting democratic ideals.” he said. The institute noted that to make the constitution viable, salaries and remuneration paid to public officers should be capped. “Kenya should review its representation without compromising national values and diversity protection of marginalized groups and the vulnerable.” Mr Mwatu said. He recommended that the law should be reviewed to provide for a strong Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC); ensure independence of the judiciary and that funds provided in the constitution should be operational. Wastage ICPAK also wants the number of those in constitutional commissions be reduced to a minimum of three and a maximum of five. The accountants also want duplication of roles in both county and national government checked to save on costs. “We are staring at a Sh3 trillion budget, are we able to foot this as a country? We need to look at our public officers and also those in elective positions. The auditor-general has been clear on the areas of leakages and wastage of public funds and correct or improve. He said that the question of the referendum should be if it is really serving the common mwananchi at the grassroots and not which positions should be created for individuals. “We need to know how we can enhance the constitution to improve services to the Kenyan in the village. The focus on the elective positions may not solve the problem but the bigger problem we are facing as a country is wastage.” Mr Mwatu said.