The national government has explained why it focused on four out of the 47 counties to roll out its Universal Health Coverage (UHC) programme on a pilot basis. Kisumu, Isiolo, Nyeri and Machakos were selected as samples that would generate the required feedback to guide the countrywide rollout. Head of Policy, Planning and Health Financing David Kariuki said the criteria for selecting the four phase 1 counties was informed by mid-term review report of Kenya Health Sector Strategic and investment Plan (KHSSP) 2014-2018. “Machakos, a county prone to road traffic accidents, Nyeri due to high prevalence of non-communicable disease such as hypertension, diabetes and cancers. Isiolo, among the top 15 high maternal mortality counties and representative of mobile population and Kisumu among counties with high prevalence of communicable diseases such as HIV and malaria,” Dr Kariuki explained. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s UHC programme, plans to ensure all Kenyans can affordably access quality health services. Below national average Dr Kariuki said 14 counties are currently below the national average of two health facilities per 10,000 people. The health benefit package offers basic outpatient care including consultation, mental illness and emergency healthcare, basic inpatient care including medical and surgical services, enhanced maternal and child health services and enhanced HIV/tuberculosis/malaria treatment. By 2022, all Kenyans should access essential services they need for their health and well-being through a health benefit package without risk of getting into financial hardship, Dr Kariuki insisted. “That is promotive, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative care. Key issues in universal health coverage include people, access to quality health services and financial protection,” Dr Kariuki said. Dr Kariuki said each Kenyan can access a benefit package that addresses their health needs, essential health interventions are provided across the country including hard to reach areas and protection from potential financial catastrophe arising from the use of health services. The above will be achieved through scaling up the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) to cover 100 per cent of the population, Private Sector Investment (PPP) and alternative financing, health budget allocation and digitised health (supply chain and telemedicine) to ensure availability of medical commodities and equipment. Other critical drivers include strengthening primary healthcare system, human resources for health management and development and to reach vulnerable populations and expectant mothers.