South Coast residents engaged in a legal tussle over parcels of land where Alliance hotels belonging to the late veteran politician Kenneth Matiba stands say they are the registered owners. Through an affidavit filed by Suleiman Omar Chala, they argue that the land is their ancestral home. Alliance Hotels Ltd and Alliance Nominees Ltd, which are associated with the late politician, have gone to court challenging a decision by the National Land Commission (NLC) revoking titles to its three parcels of land. They have also sued Kwale Registrar of Lands and eight residents. “We were born and bred on these parcels of land and we have been in occupation ever since. Our burial sites are located on the land,” said Omar Chala, one of the residents sued. Mr Chala, a resident, said the land was adjudicated in 1974 and when the titles were issued, they learnt that the plots had been registered in the names of former cabinet minister Robert Matano and a former police officer Judah Mwoka. He said they submitted their complaints to NLC and asked them to review the legality of the titles to the land. “After the commission heard the parties, it undertook investigations and reviewed the documents at the land records and prepared a report,” said Mr Chala. Mr Chala said NLC made a decision that the titles to the land reflecting Alliance Hotels Ltd be revoked and the property be reverted to residents. According to Alliance Hotels Ltd and Alliance Nominees Ltd, they were advised that pursuant to a hearing held on December 14 2016, the lands commission made a determination that that they had acquired the properties illegally. They argue that NLC ordered the cancellation of their titles to the properties and be reverted to the eight residents. “The petitioners are surprised by this turn of events especially noting that they were never served with notices or in any way involved in the hearings conducted by the NLC despite the proceedings touching on properties registered to them,” part of the suit documents states. Alliance Hotels Ltd and Alliance Nominees Ltd argue that proceedings undertaken by NLC together with subsequent revocation of their titles to the land were "unconstitutional, illegal and wrongful".