Wealthy developers who erected multibillion shilling properties on grabbed land in Kibarani, Mombasa are set to lose their possessions after the National Land Commission completed its investigations into the controversial acquisition of the ocean land. The properties include container freight stations and other vast storage facilities near the Mombasa port. The NLC had been investigating the land saga following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s order a month ago after massive encroachment of the ocean along Makupa Causeway. The private developers grabbed the ocean-land more than 10 years ago. Anxiety has gripped the wealthy developers over the fate of their properties after the NLC finalised the report on land reclamation in Kibarani. NLC acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya said Wednesday the report on their investigations was ready. “We are now set to meet as a commission to ratify and adopt it before we forward it to President Kenyatta and subsequently release it to the public in two weeks’ time,” she told the Business Daily. The news has sent shock waves among the more than 30 developers who own title deeds of the Kibarani dumpsite, which is a long the Makupa causeway. Among those said to own the ocean-land are owners of the CFSs who are linked to politicians. Former assistant minister Mohammed Sajjad is among the developers with title deeds. “I do not want to pre-empt anything about the report but people should know that the ocean will not be available for allocation. Really, that one cannot be allowed,” said Ms Mbagaya. Sources from two of the firms, which were being investigated said the management had panicked over the report. “The bosses fear of losing their investments,” said the source. The final report comes after the NLC summoned top government officials to explain why they issued licences allowing the reclamation of ocean land. The officials included directors of the National Environment Management Authority, Kenya Forest Services and Kenya Ports Authority who appeared before the commission in Nairobi.