State House has reduced the size of delegations of Cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries undertaking foreign travel on official State duty to a minimum of four persons per delegation. This is part of revamped austerity plans for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s cash-strapped administration. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua says in a letter to all Cabinet secretaries, the Attorney-General, principal secretaries and chief administrative secretaries that international travel clearance will from now on only be granted when the meetings occasioning the travel are “manifestly justifiable in terms of clear and sizeable benefits” to taxpayers. “Delegations headed by Cabinet secretaries or chief administrative secretaries should not exceed four persons including the head of delegation,” said Mr Kinyua in the letter dated October 19 also copied to the Treasury secretary Henry Rotich. Mr Kinyua added that delegations headed by principal secretaries and chairpersons or chief executives of State corporations should not exceed three including their head of delegation. Mr Kinyua also said Cabinet secretaries and their principal secretaries should not be out of the country in such officials trips at the same time. Written reports All officials sanctioned for the foreign trips will also be required to submit written reports on the benefits of the trips to government and taxpayers, within seven days of return to the country, according to the new rules. “Cabinet secretaries shall on the 10th day of every month make monthly returns to the Head of the Public Service with respect to all travels clearances issued by them in the previous month, indicating the expenditure incurred and the expected benefits from the international,” he said. The government in September last year sought to curb runaway foreign travel by its officers, requiring them to obtain clearance from the Head of Public Service to travel out of the country. Insiders however say the rules have been flouted with abandon, with top officials engaging in luxury trips at the expense of tax payers. “As an omnibus guiding principle international travel should be limited to essential trips and all reasonable steps to ensure prudent use of public funds should be employed,” said Mr Kinyua. “Cabinet secretaries, chief administrative secretaries, principal secretaries, accounting officers, chairpersons and chief executives of State corporations travelling abroad will continue to seek clearance from his Excellency the President.” New levies President Uhuru Kenyatta has introduced new and higher levies on a wider array of goods and services to support State programmes amid a budget hole. His administration also kicked off a painful austerity plan slashing the 2018-19 budget to Sh2.97 trillion from Sh3.03 trillion initially. The measures are aimed at filling the hole left following changes to proposed taxes including halving of 16 per cent levy on petroleum products. Experts had earlier said that Treasury will have to cut its coat according to its cloth, by drastically reducing its expenditure in the wake of the changes in the tax measures. Most of the blame on spending is directed at recurrent expenditure, whose major items are the wage bill and debt servicing. The development budget as a proportion of the total budget has been falling, currently standing at below 30 percent.