Diani Reef Beach Resort & Spa has been voted the best beach hotel in Africa ahead of 12 other facilities at the World Travel Awards 2017. The Kwale-based facility which enjoys a white sandy beach and revamped conference facility also won the award in 2010. This looks set to boost Kenya’s palm-fringed beach of Diani, which was also feted as the best in the continent after beating competition from beaches in South Africa, Mozambique, Zanzibar and Egypt. Managing Director Bobby Kamani noted investments in the hotel’s physical infrastructure such as conference facilities and staff trainings boosted its customer appeal. “We are grateful that our efforts in upgrading our product as well as enhancing our service levels have been recognised by clients who have voted for us,” said Mr Kamani during the ceremony held at the Durban International Convention Centre in South Africa. ''In addition, a state of the art conference facility which is the largest has also been an added benefit to conference delegates visiting the region,'' he said. Recognition at the WTA is highly regarded as this is seen as the industry’s mark of quality. Kenya Association of Hotel Keepers and Caterers (KAHC) North Coast branch chairman Philip Chai said the recognition will attract more tourists into the country especially in South Coast where the resort is located.“Getting these awards in Kenya is simply informing the world exactly where tourists can come and sample the rich cultural heritage and sandy beaches found in Kenya,” he said. Mr Chai said visitors seeking quiet and serene holiday destinations will definitely take note of the awards and start planning their holidays to the region. Kenya is likely to earn 15 per cent more this year from tourism as the number of visitors grows by 17 to 18 per cent, the government has forecast. The country had 1.47 million tourists last year and earned Sh120 billion from their visits. The forecast was based on a growing local market and new daily, direct flights to New York by Kenya Airways, which will attract more American tourists. Along with agricultural exports and cash sent home by Kenyans living abroad, tourism is one of the top foreign exchange earners.