City Hall on Monday turned the tables on Kenya Power   in the stand-off over Sh950 million unpaid electricity bills, arguing the utility owes it Sh1.26 billion in unpaid rents in a row that could plunge City Hall into darkness. The city government led by Mike Mbuvi Sonko is now claiming Sh374 million from Kenya Power after deducting an initial electricity payment of Sh30 million and asked the power firm’s acting chief executive Jared Othieno for a Thursday meeting to settle the row. The power distributor had on September 24 sent a demand letter to Nairobi for the Sh950 million bill, which raised fears the utility was preparing to disconnect City Hall. “We also want to remind you that NCCG had a claim against Kenya Power on wayleave amounting to Sh748 million and sub-station rent amounting to Sh68 million,” City Hall said in a letter to Kenya Power. Nairobi added that Kenya Power owes it a further Sh451 million for wayleaves — land hosting power lines and transformers — which is to be settled by the Treasury. This is the second time in less than 24 months that City Hall and Kenya Power are locked in a row over claims and counter claims involving millions of shillings in debt. In 2016, Kenya Power disconnected City Hall, forcing the utility to seek court protection after Nairobi County threatened to clamp and impound the electricity distributor’s vehicles over the unpaid land rates. City Hall also threatened to barricade Kenya Power premises with a truck of garbage. The latest debt row comes after Kenya Power accused City Hall of breach a June agreement in settling the Sh950 million debt, adding the bill had grown to Sh1.13 billion as at last month. Under the agreement, City Hall was to pay upfront Sh15 million, followed by an undisclosed amount in monthly instalments. Mr Othieno last week informed Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter of difficulties in reaching Governor Mike Sonko over the bills row. The bills disagreement is emerging as Nairobi City County struggles to meet revenue targets under Mr Sonko whose government raised Sh8.8 billion in the 10 months to June, compared to Sh9.8 billion under his predecessor, Evans Kidero.