City Hall could be losing millions of shillings in inflated payments made to contractors delivering garbage at the Dandora dumpsite every day. This is due to lack of a functional weighbridge to measure the amount of waste brought in at the site. The county has been estimating the weight of garbage after its only weighbridge broke down on August 16, giving room for corrupt deals, according to a report tabled before an assembly committee. City Hall is now depending on past records of garbage delivered by the particular trucks captured before the weigh-bridge broke down to estimate the tonnages they currently deliver. The old weighbridge was installed in 2007 but has been breaking down frequently and procurement hurdles have made it difficult to repair it. “Procurement protocols have made us not immediately secure a service provider to repair the weighbridge,” reads the report tabled on Tuesday before the House Committee on Environment. Contracted firms Chief Officer for Environment David Makori further told the committee that the estimates on garbage delivered by the various contractors vary in weight from the rainy season to the dry periods, with committee members saying the county government could be losing millions in collusion between corrupt officials who have delayed the installation of a new weighbridge and some collectors. “This is thuggery and the county is losing millions every week,” Peter Imwatok, a committee member and ward representative for Makongeni said. City Hall is yet to install its new weighbridge that currently lies idle at the Nanyuki Road yard, two years since its procurement through Gokhan Technical Services. Makori told the House committee that bidders did not respond to an earlier public procurement tender for the ramp, delaying the installation of facility. He added that the new weighing facility needs the new ramp because its configurations differ from the previous one used by the aging weighbridge. Nine firms are currently contracted by City Hall to deliver garbage at the Dandora dumpsite.