Limited land has emerged as a major challenge to the creation of Special Economic Zones (SEZ) by various county regional blocs. Representatives from both the national and county governments, while addressing concerns on major challenges that have hindered blue economy in the Lake Region bloc, said the SEZs would help turn around the economy of the 14-member bloc. Kisumu has been picked to host the Lake Region Economic bloc-Special Economic Zone. However, Kakamega governor and chairman of the bloc Wycliffe Oparanya said only 500 acres of land was available in Kisumu for the SEZ. “This is a major setback to the programme and we need to pull our efforts together as a bloc to get the over 5,000 acres of required land,” said Mr Oparanya on Tuesday on the sidelines of the Lake Region Economic Bloc conference in Bomet County. Vision 2030 board that is steering the SEZ’s explained that Kisumu was the best county to host the region’s SEZ given its strategic location in East Africa. “Lake Victoria which is shared by the East African Countries makes Kisumu a special point for an economic hub,” said Dr Moses Ikiara, board member of Vision 2030 delivery unit. He said Mombasa and Lamu are just some of the other regions in the country hosting SEZ. With only 500 acres of available land, he advised the bloc to set up an industrial park. “We need close to 100,000 acres of land for SEZ. But our worry is, are counties ready to give up such huge sizes of land? This is something we are still exploring,” said Dr Ikiara who is also KenInvest managing director. Vision 2030 secretariat has visited various counties as it surveys on how best to deliver on their mandate. But Mr Oparanya while noting that the programme is very ambitious said counties in the Lake Region Economic Bloc will now be required to set up mini-economic zones as they seek to respond to land availability challenges. In Kakamega, he said, they had set aside 50 acres in Mumias town. He added that devolution continues to face many challenges which the Bomet conference seeks to address.