A standoff looms over the sharing of Sh906 million allocated to the miraa sector after Meru MCAs vowed to reject the inclusion of Embu and Tharaka-Nithi farmers as beneficiaries of the fund. Speaking when the implementation committee paid a courtesy call to the Meru County Assembly, the majority of the MCAs protested the “diversion” of the cash to other crops and sought a meeting to iron out pending issues. Majority leader Victor Karithi said they would lobby the government to ensure the money is allocated to Meru farmers only. “We would like to know at what point Embu and Tharaka-Nithi counties were included in the miraa kitty. “We do not want our money to be taken elsewhere. However, this clamour should not be used as an excuse for not releasing the money,” he said. However, committee chairman Kello Harsama assured the leaders that the money would only be spent on promoting miraa. He said Embu and Tharaka-Nithi muguka farmers would get part of the fund as per a Treasury circular. “We urge leaders to keep politics out of the miraa programmes to avert further implementation delays. We are meeting all stakeholders and will seek their views before we undertake any project. We are open to oversight and will not take instructions from individuals,” he said. “The committee will work with the farmers and other stakeholders to decide the projects and where they will be located.” Mr Harsama, who is also the secretary of administration at the state department of crops at the Ministry of Agriculture, warned that politicking would delay the absorption of the funds during the current financial year. The committee has also partnered with the Meru University of Science and Technology to set up a miraa research institute. The Treasury slashed the allocation by Sh94 million due to the lack of absorption in the last financial year. Amwathi MCA John Ntongai said when President Uhuru Kenyatta met Meru leaders in April 2016, he was clear that Sh1 billion was for miraa farmers. “The President should intervene on which county should get the money. Muguka, which is grown in Embu and Tharaka-Nithi, was not affected by the ban in Europe,” he said. Antubetwe Kikongo MCA George Kaliunga said miraa farmers would hold a rally to chart the way forward if the plan is not revoked. “We want our MPs to stop being silent while money meant for miraa goes to other counties. We will not take this matter lightly,” he said.