City Hall has raised eyebrows with plans to spend Sh300 million on purchase of new uniforms for its inspectorate staff. The Mike Sonko-led county government says the plan to be implemented in the next financial year will make it easier for the public to identify workers charged with collecting parking fees and clamping down vehicles that flout various regulations. At the moment, the workers wear white and yellow- branded overalls. The county government has not disclosed the number of workers it plans to give the new uniforms. “This will enhance identification while on duty. It will also improve county image and employee satisfaction,” City Hall says in its County Annual Development Plan (CADP) for 2019/20. It adds that it has so far bought 2,000 uniforms for its inspectorate workers. City Hall had — without putting a price to it — floated a similar plan under the Evans Kidero-led government in June 2016 “to curb incidences of impersonation by some members of the public.” The uniform included numbers similar to those of the Police Service, identification badges and boots. The county government in June arrested four people and charged them with impersonating members of the inspectorate team and extorting money from the public. The plan to spend the millions on uniforms comes despite even bigger challenges facing the inspectorate department. The department is currently understaffed, falling well below the United Nations recommended ratio of one worker for every 400 people in the city. In June, the then Inspectorate chief Peter Mbaya said that City Hall had recruited 300 additional officers. City Hall has struggled to enforce city bylaws due to the low staff numbers. This has seen matatu operators brazenly drop and pick passengers in non-designated areas while boda-boda operators have defied orders to operate in specific spots outside the city centre. The inspectorate department collected Sh29.5 million in the last financial year in accumulated amounts which included court fines, enforcement and impounding of vehicles.