The government is offering global hotel chains space in national parks to boost investment outside Nairobi and rev up tourism. Tourism Cabinet Seretary Najib Balala said the incentive is aimed at pushing top hotel brands like Marriott International, Hyatt and Radisson to look beyond Nairobi. Hotel chains have recently upped their investments in Africa, which has some of the world’s fastest growing economies and a rising middle class, with Nairobi being a key beneficiary. “You should build not only a city or town hotel but also go to the national parks and create a circuit. We are looking into opportunities for new sites in the national parks for brands with two or more hotels in Kenya,” said Mr Balala while addressing hotel owners and managers during the Africa Hotel Investment Forum. This looks set to boost travel and economic activity in settlements that border Kenya’s 21 sprawling game parks like Tsavo, Marsabit, Meru, Ol Donyo Sabuk, Ndere Island, Ruma and Amboseli. Mr Balala said his ministry has opened talks with the custodian of parks, Kenya Wildlife Services, to identify spaces for hotel development that will not degrade environment and wildlife. Top parks in Kenya including Tsavo, Lake Nakuru, Samburu and Shimba Hills have a large hotel presence dominated by local establishments such as Sarova and Serena. The smaller parks, which offer unique ecosystems ranging from rare birds and endangered forests such as Ndere Island host few hotels or none at all. The park space offer is part of incentives and investments government has been making to make alternative destinations more attractive for investors. The bulk of the hotel investment in Kenya outside Nairobi has been by local hoteliers such as Sarova, and individual investors. International brands have shied away from the beach and bush terrain in Kenya, save for a handful. Nairobi has seen increased interest by investors with nearly all the 20 hotels in the pipeline over the next five years slated for the capital. Wyndham signed a golf resort hotel and spa deal in Amboseli in 2014. It has, however, not reported on when the project will be ready. Swiss International made a splash with an upscale resort in Nanyuki on the foot of Mt Kenya, scheduled to open this year. the resort will be in competition with Mt Kenya Safari Club, which operates under the Fairmont brand. Best Western, also signed a midscale resort in Naivasha scheduled to open next year. These are the only three properties signed by international brands outside Nairobi. Last year, Sarova Group signed a management deal with Woodlands Hotel worth Sh1.3 billion to supervise operations of the four-star facility in Nakuru. Watamu Hemingways Resort and Residences underwent a Sh1.2 billion refurbishment. The local brand offers a complete bush, beach and city experience for visitors.