The mother of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno has urged court to deny Migori Governor Okoth Obado bail until a murder trial he is facing is completed. In documents filed and tabled before court, Melida Auma pleaded to have Mr Obado, who is accused of killing Ms Otieno, locked up claiming that her family is living in fear. Ms Auma who hails from Migori County but is married in Homa Bay said Mr Obado and his co-accused, if released were highly likely to expose witnesses to intimidation, interfere with evidence and unduly undermine the prosecution’s case. “As a family, we live in mortal fear following the murder of our daughter Sharon, the thought that those accused of murdering her can be free during trial is chilling, a situation not helped by the fact that as family members we are possible witnesses in this matter,” said Ms Auma. She says Obado, being the governor, wields immense influence and she fears that his release, more so when three other suspects are still at large, would pose a high risk of interference with witnesses and evidence. "This will render vain the efforts being made by the DCI and the DPP to bring those who murdered my daughter to justice," her affidavit reads. Mr Obado has denied a charge of murder and has remained in custody for the past 19 days. His personal assistant Michael Juma Oyamo was also charged with murder, while another assistant, Caspal Ojwang Obiero, was charged with aiding and abetting the crime. Ms Otieno was abducted by four men in a car in Homa Bay on September 3 and her body was found a day later in a thicket 40 kilometres away, near Oyugis town. Mr Obado had on September 25 made an application for bail pending trial. Two days later, Justice Jessie Lessit disallowed his application for reasons that the prosecution had not supplied all the parties with witness statements and the evidence. Mr Obado has since renewed his application for bail citing ill health. Since Mr Oyamo and Mr Obiero had been charged with a similar offence, the prosecution had requested that the three cases be consolidated and their bail hearing be heard together. Their bail application will be heard on Friday.