Advertisers will pay Sh3 million in fines for putting up a billboards on road reserves within the capital city in the latest plan by Governor Mike Sonko to raise revenue for various services. This is a new charge. The introduction of the new fine is part of proposed charges, through which the county expects to plug a Sh7 billion budget deficit. The plan also see parking fees go up by 33 percent to Sh400 from the current Sh300 per day. The proposals are contained in the Nairobi City County Finance Bill, 2018 which was tabled in the County Assembly on Tuesday. If the bill is passed firms will be fined Sh100,000 to bring down billboards, sky and light-emitting diode (LED) signs erected without payment. City Hall will also fine advertisers Sh6,000 to remove every light box put on street poles before the county receives its dues. Firms currently pay Sh1.3 million for each large billboard and between Sh20,000 and Sh50,000 for the small ones in annual levies. Besides the firms, city residents will also be slapped with higher charges. For instance, the Bill proposes to charge slum dwellers Sh100 every month for garbage collection as those in estates will part with Sh300 while the upmarket homes will pay Sh500. Currently garbage collection firms charge between Sh150 to Sh200 per month. The House committee on Budget and Appropriations has, however, vowed to reject the proposals. “We will not accept the proposals when they come before the House. As a Committee our first role is to represent members of the public. We have to balance (concerns) to ensure they are not overtaxed,” committee chair Robert Mbatia said. City residents have until end of business tomorrow (Friday) to present their views on the new taxation measures that have will also hit other sectors hard. The governor is banking on the proposed charges to boost revenue collection, which has fallen since he took over in August last year. City Hall data shows revenue collection fell by Sh1 billion in the first 10 months under Mr Sonko, compared to a similar period during the Evans Kidero-led government. Nairobi collected Sh8.8 billion in the period to June, a 10 percent fall from Sh9.8 billion generated in a similar period to June 2017.